Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

High Streamflow Advisory: Interior
Issued: 21 May 2013 2:10 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Chilcotin
     •   Central Interior (including the Nicola River, Salmon River, Shuswap River and
         surrounding areas)
     •   Similkameen River
A significant upper‐low pressure system is developing through southern BC and Washington
State, and is expected to bring an eastern flow of moist air through the BC Interior over the
next several days. Heavy rain is expected over Tuesday evening to Wednesday, and another
episode over the Thursday to Friday period. Rainfall amounts over this period may be in excess
of 75 mm. The heaviest rainfall amounts are currently forecast for the eastern slopes of the
Coast and Cascade Mountains, including areas around Princeton through to Lytton and areas
west of Williams Lake. Lesser rainfall amounts are forecast through the north and south
Okanagan.
River levels through the Interior are expected to rise rapidly throughout Wednesday, with the
potential for further rises later in the week. Rivers may reach levels similar to, or slightly higher,
than levels previously observed this year. The greatest river level rises are expected in areas
with the highest rainfall amounts (discussed above), however other areas may see significant
river level rises if they receive more than currently forecast rainfall.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
