Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Update ‐ High Streamflow Advisory: North Coast and Central Coast
Issued: 1October2012 1:30 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is updating the High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   North Coast (including Stewart, Prince Rupert, Nass, Kitimat and surrounding areas)
     •   Central Coast (including Bella Bella, Bella Coola, Kingcome, Owikeeno Lake, and
         surrounding areas)
An intense frontal system is forecast to deliver heavy rain throughout regions of the North and
Central Coast of British Columbia today. Precipitation totals of 50 to 80 mm for the North Coast
and 110 mm for the Central Coast are expected by this evening. The frontal system is expected
to move through by late afternoon.


River levels have been responding to this precipitation and are expected to continue to rise for
the remainder of the day:
    •    The Kitimat River below Hirsch Creek (08FF001) is currently flowing at 915 m3/s, which is
         a 1‐year return period flow, and the water level is rising at approximately 16 cm/hour. It
         is forecasted that the flow will be rising to 1440 m3/s, which is a 2‐year return period
         flow, in a day if 100 mm rainfall is coming by this evening.
    •    Hirsch Creek near the Mouth (08FF002) is currently flowing at 150 m3/s, which is a 1‐
         year return period flow, and the water level is rising at approximately 12 cm/hour. It is
         forecasted that the flow will be rising to 290 m3/s, which is a 2‐year return period flow,
         in a day if 100 mm rainfall is coming by this evening.
    •    The Salloomt River near Hagensborg (08FB004) is currently flowing at 45 m3/s, which is
         a 1‐year return period flow, and the water level is rising at approximately 15 cm/hour. It
         is forecasted that the flow will be rising to 80 m3/s, which is a 2‐year return period flow,
         in a day if 100 mm rainfall is coming by this evening.


The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
