Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

UPDATE‐ Flood Warning: Peace Region and tributaries of Williston Lake
Issued: 25June2011 12:30 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the advisory to a Flood Warning for:
     •   Peace Region

     •   Tributaries of Williston Lake
A low pressure trough is working its way across British Columbia, and has stalled over the south Peace
Region. Rainfall rates over the past 48 hours in the areas around Fort St. John and west have been in the
40‐150mm range, with the highest rates around Hudson’s Hope and the eastern slopes of the Rocky
Mountains from Pine Pass north to the Sikanni Chief River.
Environment Canada has maintained a rainfall warning for the Peace and Williston regions, with
additional rainfall amounts of 10‐40mm expected through Saturday.
River levels in the region have been rising rapidly over the past 24 hours. Current levels on gauged rivers
are:
    •    Sikanni Chief River near Fort Nelson (10CB001) is at 410 m3/s. This is approximately a 10‐year
         flow level
    •    Carbon Creek (07EF004) west of Hudson’s Hope is at approximately 250 m3/s and is continuing
         to rise. This is currently the flood of record on Carbon Creek (12 years of monitoring)
    •    Halfway River (07FA006) is at 1300 m3/s and rising at 3 cm/hour. This is approaching a 10‐year
         flow level
    •    Moberly River (07FB008) is at 120 m3/s and rising at 2.5 cm/hour. This is a 20‐year flow level
    •    Pine River (07FB001) is at 1700 m3/s and rising at 8 cm/hour. This is at a 5‐year flow level
The current river response is largely due to heavy rainfall from late‐Thursday into Friday. With additional
heavy rainfall over Friday, and more expected through Saturday, significant additional rises in river
levels is expected through Sunday, and into Monday for larger river systems. Flooding is expected
throughout the region, and some rivers may reach record level.
Specific rivers of concern include the Sikanni Chief River, Halfway River, Beatton River, Carbon Creek,
Pine River, Moberly River and Kiskatinaw River, and all smaller tributary rivers within the area.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update as
conditions warrant. Current streamflow information is available from the River Forecast Centre
website: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
