Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Flood Watch: South Interior
Updated: 12 May 2013 2:35 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the advisory to a Flood Watch for:
     •   Mission Creek
     •   West Kettle and Kettle Rivers
     •   Granby River
     •   Kootenay Region (small watersheds including Redfish Creek and Duhamel Creek)
The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Similkameen (including the Tulameen River, the mainstem of the Similkameen, and
         tributaries)
     •   Boundary (small tributary creeks)
     •   Kootenay Region (medium‐sized watersheds including the Slocan River, Moyie River,
         Salmo River, Elk River, Bull River) ‐ ADDED
The BC River Forecast Centre is ending the High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Okanagan Region (small tributary creeks)
     •   Thompson Region (including the Salmon River near Falkland, Coldwater River, Chase
         Creek, and other small watersheds)
Snowmelt has been rapid over the past week as a result of unseasonably high temperatures.
Rivers across the South Interior have been flowing high in response to this snow melt. Smaller
creek systems through the Okanagan and Thompson regions, primarily fed from mid‐elevation
areas, appear to have exhausted much of the feeding snowpack, and river levels have peaked
and are now receding. In watersheds fed by snow at higher elevations (medium‐sized
watersheds through the Okanagan and Boundary including Mission Creek, Kettle River, Granby
River and , and small watersheds in the Kootenay including Duhamel and Redfish Creeks), river
levels remain high (between 2‐year and 5‐year flows).
The province is now under‐going a change in weather patterns, with a break‐down of the high
pressure ridge that created hot temperatures last week, to a low pressure system which is

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

forecast to bring moderate rainfall through the south‐east. Precipitation is expected to be the
heaviest on Monday, with forecasted cumulative rainfall amounts up to 30 mm over higher
terrain through Tuesday, and 5‐10 mm over valley bottom locations.
With limited capacity in several rivers in south and south‐east BC (including Mission Creek,
Kettle and West Kettle Rivers, Granby River, Duhamel Creek, and Redfish Creek), rivers are
sensitive to additional water input from this rainfall. This creates a potential for flood
conditions to be reached, with the expected peak river levels to occur on early Tuesday for the
medium sized rivers (Mission, Kettle, Granby) and late‐Monday for smaller systems. The
amount that rivers rise will depend on rainfall amounts over the next 2 days. If rainfall amounts
are below what is forecasted, flooding may not occur. Flooding is possible under forecasted
rainfall amounts, and flooding is likely to occur if rainfall exceeds the current forecast.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
