Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

High Streamflow Advisory: Interior
Issued: 19 June 2013 10:45 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Thompson Region (including the North Thompson, Salmon River, Shuswap River, Eagle
         River and surrounding areas)
     •   Okanagan (including Mission Creek)
     •   Boundary (including Kettle River and Granby River)
     •   West and East Kootenay
     •   Upper Columbia (including the Kicking Horse River and surrounding areas)
     •   Lower Columbia (smaller tributary rivers)


A low pressure system has developed south of British Columbia and is bringing warm, moist air
into the province. Widespread heavy rainfall is expected across the Interior on Wednesday and
Thursday. Environment Canada has issued a rainfall warning for many areas of the Interior, with
2‐day rainfall amounts in the 40‐60mm range forecast. Higher amounts are possible in areas
where local topography increases rainfall amounts.
Rivers are expected to respond to this rainfall with rapid rises on Wednesday and Thursday.
Small to medium‐sized watersheds are expected to see the most significant rises, particularly in
areas where rainfall is the heaviest. It is difficult to pin‐point exactly where the heaviest rainfall
will occur and therefore which streams will be impacted.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
required.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
