BC Environment
River Forecast Centre

High Streamflow Advisory: Central Coast 19Oct2010 11:00AM
    •    Tributaries of the Bella Coola River

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the tributaries of the
Bella Coola River. This advisory does not include the mainstem of the Bella Coola River.
Environment Canada has issued a Rainfall Warning for the Central Coast – Coastal Sections,
with forecasts for an additional 110 mm of precipitation by early Thursday morning. Although
this Rainfall Warning does not include the Bella Coola valley, moderate to heavy precipitation
has been recorded at weather stations in the valley over the past 12 hours. The MOF Fire
Weather stations at Hagensborg and Talchako have recorded 30‐32 mm of rain since 10PM last
night, and intensities of 2‐5 mm/hour for the past 8 hours. The MOT Road Weather station at
Bella Coola has recorded 42 mm over the past 12 hours.
The Environment Canada forecast is for an additional 15‐25 mm of rain today, easing early this
evening. An additional 10 mm is forecast overnight, and 5‐10 mm for Wednesday. Minor
flooding has been reported on tributaries on the southern side of the valley. Given the current
weather forecast, localized overbank flow is possible for other creeks and streams in some
areas, depending on local rainfall amount and intensity. The mainstem of the Bella Coola River
will also exhibit an increase in water level, but based on the current rainfall forecast, is not
expected to approach flood level. River levels will continue to rise throughout the day, and are
expected to peak late tonight.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update
Wednesday morning, or earlier if conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
