Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

High Streamflow Advisory: South Interior
Updated: 14 May 2013 9:35 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is downgrading the advisory to a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Granby River
     •   Kootenay Region (medium‐sized watersheds including the Slocan River, Moyie River,
         Salmo River, Elk River, Bull River)
     •   Osoyoos Lake – ADDED
The BC River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Mission Creek
     •   Similkameen (including the Tulameen River, the mainstem of the Similkameen, and
         tributaries)
     •   Boundary (West Kettle and Kettle Rivers and small tributary creeks)
     •   Kootenay Region (small‐sized watersheds including Redfish Creek and Duhamel Creek)
Temperatures have dropped significantly over the past day, and this has led to reduced snow
melt rates throughout the South Interior. The Kootenay region received moderate
precipitation yesterday (5 ‐ 30mm of rain was observed at automated snow pillows), with
5 ‐ 10mm of rain observed through the Okanagan.
A summary of current conditions:
    •    Granby River near Grand Forks (08NN002) gauge is currently not reporting. The river is
         expected to have stabilized but remain high. Levels are expected to drop through today
         and into the rest of the week.
    •    West Kettle River at Westbridge (08NN003) and the Kettle River near Westbridge
         (08NN026) are both below a 2‐year flow and river levels are dropping.
    •    Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) is currently at 47 m3/s (below a 2‐year
         flow) and river levels are dropping.
    •    Elk River at Fernie (08NK002) is currently at 270 m3/s (between a 2‐year and 5‐year
         flow) and is expected to see continued modest rise through today.

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

With cooling temperatures and low rainfall amounts forecasted over the coming days, river
levels are expected to improve tomorrow and through the week.
On Osoyoos Lake, high flow rates from the Similkameen River are causing a back‐water effect at
the lake outlet, and affecting the outflow rates from the lake. Lake levels are expected to
continue to rise over the next few days.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
