Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

High Streamflow Advisory: Lower Fraser River (Quesnel, south)
UPDATED: 14 May 2013 1:20 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Fraser River (including Quesnel, Fraser Canyon, Hope and the Lower Mainland)
Snowmelt has been rapid over the past week as a result of unseasonably high temperatures.
Additional rainfall over the past two days, particularly in the South Coast and Lower Fraser
basins, has caused a sharp rise in the Fraser River tributaries. Rainfall has now eased,
temperatures have cooled, and tributary inflows along the lower Fraser (e.g. Fraser Canyon and
downstream) are declining.
Tributary inflows along the lower Fraser River has been much higher than normal over the past
few days as a result of late‐weekend rainfall. Typically 8‐10% of the flows observed at Hope
originate from tributaries along the lower reaches of the Fraser, however over the past 2 days
this inflow has contributed to over 20% of the observed flow at Hope. This led to some
challenges with modelling the Fraser over the past couple of days, as weather and hydrometric
data is limited from this region.
With a decline in the lower tributary inflows, the Fraser River at Hope (WSC Gauge 08MF005)
has remained steady over the past day at approximately 9000 m3/s (2‐year flow). In the
headwaters of the Upper Fraser, flows have been peaking near flood stage today through
Prince George. Flows along the Lower Fraser (at Hope and downstream) are expected to
continue to rise through the week. Current modelling for the Fraser River at Hope is
forecasting flows to reach approximately 10,000 m3/s over the Wednesday‐Thursday period,
with peak levels expected on Friday potentially reaching the 10,500‐11,000 m3/s or less range.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and refine our estimates of the
likely magnitude of peak levels later in the week. The River Forecast Centre will provide an
update by 1:00 PM Wednesday or earlier if conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
