Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/)

High Streamflow Advisory: South Coast
Issued: 27September2013 11:00AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast
including:
     •   Howe Sound
     •   North Shore Mountains
     •   Fraser Valley (including Chilliwack River)
A Pacific storm system is approaching British Columbia into this weekend. The storm has
entrained moisture from the sub‐tropics, and is expected to deliver heavy rainfall throughout
the Saturday through Monday period. The heaviest rainfall is expected over Saturday to
Sunday. Environment Canada has issued a special weather statement and a rainfall warning for
the Howe Sound, Fraser Valley and Metro Vancouver areas, with one day rainfall amounts of up
to 60 mm forecast on Saturday, and 2‐day totals potentially exceeding 75 mm. Higher rainfall
amounts are possible over higher terrain.
Rivers through Howe Sound, North Shore, and Fraser Valley are expected to rise on Saturday
through Sunday in response to the rainfall. With the potential for continued rain through
Monday, rivers are expected to remain elevated into Monday. Peak river levels are expected
either Sunday or Monday, depending on the timing of localized heavy rain. While significant
flooding is not currently expected, localized high streamflow conditions and minor flooding is
possible.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
