Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/)

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River
Issued: 26June2012 5:30PM
The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:
    •    Lower Fraser River
As of this morning, the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is flowing at approximately 11,700
m3/s, and has started to rise. The Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) is currently at 6.10 m,
down from a peak of 6.48 m over the weekend. The Fraser at Mission is expected to begin
rising again overnight.
Heavy rainfall and rapid snowmelt occurred over the weekend, particularly in the Thompson
River basin (a major tributary to the Lower Fraser River) and to a lesser extent in the Upper
Fraser River basin. Typically it takes 6 days for water from rain and snowmelt in these
headwaters to travel down to the Lower Fraser Valley. Due to heavier rain across the Fraser
River tributaries, another pulse of water is expected to travel downstream through this week. A
rise in river levels is expected over the next few days, and levels are expected to reach their
peak levels over the late‐Thursday to Saturday period at Hope and the Friday to Sunday period
around Mission and downstream. Current forecasts are estimating the flows to be in the range
of 11,400‐11,800 m3/s at Hope, and a height of approximately 6.3 m at the Mission gauge. This
is slightly below levels that were observed last weekend.
Once the pulse of water has passed, levels are expected to recede towards the end of the
weekend, and into next week. Unless additional severe weather (extreme heat or heavy rainfall
in the Upper Fraser basin) occurs, river levels are expected to drop through the remainder of
the freshet season.
For daily updates of 5‐day forecasts of water levels and timing of daily peak levels for various
locations down the Lower Fraser River, see the River Forecast Centre website:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/bulletins/Freshet2012/WL_Prediction.pdf
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
