Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

High Streamflow Advisory: Lower Fraser River
Issued: 13 May 2013 1:00 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Fraser River (including Quesnel, Fraser Canyon, Hope and the Lower Mainland)
Snowmelt has been rapid over the past week as a result of unseasonably high temperatures.
Additional rainfall over the past day, particularly in the South Coast and Lower Fraser basins,
has caused a sharp rise in the Fraser River tributaries. Further rainfall is forecast over the next
day. Temperatures are expected to cool on Tuesday, and tributary inflows are expected to
decline into the middle of this week.
The Fraser River has been rising sharply over the past several days in response to snow melt,
and rainfall in the lower reaches of the watershed. The Fraser River at Hope (WSC Gauge
08MF005) is currently flowing at 9000 m3/s (2‐year flow) and rising at 1200 m3/s per day. In
addition, streams in the headwaters of the Fraser are continuing to rise with snowmelt and
rainfall. Current modelling for the Fraser River at Hope is forecasting flows to reach 10,000
m3/s over the Wednesday‐Thursday period. However, given current rates of rise in tributary
channels, and wet weather yesterday and today, model results may be underestimating the
rate of rise in the Lower Fraser. Given current conditions, flows at Hope may reach 11,500 m3/s,
or higher, by Thursday. With the current cooling trend expected over the coming days, peak
levels on the Fraser are expected on Friday or Saturday of this week.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update by
1:00 PM Wednesday, or earlier if conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
