Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/)

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River
Issued: 23June2012 3:40PM
The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:
    •    Lower Fraser River
As of 8:00AM on Saturday, the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is flowing at 11,750 m3/s, and
has dropped slightly from a peak of approximately 11,900 m3/s on Friday. River levels at Hope
are expected to remain elevated (>11,500 m3/s) through the weekend and into early next
week.
Water is currently working its way through the lower reaches of the Fraser Valley (Chilliwack
downstream to the ocean). As a result of increases in local inflows (including the Harrison River)
and channel hydraulics, river levels are expected to continue to rise through the weekend
through the Fraser Valley and reach peak levels on Sunday and Monday. For complete forecasts
of the lower Fraser River water levels and timing of daily peak levels, see the River Forecast
Centre website: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/bulletins/Freshet2012/WL_Prediction.pdf
The Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) is currently at 6.37 m and is expected to rise up to 6.50
m on Sunday into Monday.
The Fraser River at Whonnock (08MH044) near Langley is currently at 5.09 m, and is expected
to rise to 5.14 m on Sunday into Monday.
As of Saturday morning, a low pressure system was bringing rain across much of southern
British Columbia. This system is forecast to continue to deliver more rain through Sunday, with
the heaviest amounts expected in the Thompson River basin (Shuswap, South Thompson and
North Thompson Rivers). In the Upper Fraser River (upstream of Prince George), the watershed
is mountainous and runoff from rainfall rapidly moves downstream, creating significant
“pulses” of water that travel down the river, such as what is being observed through the lower
Fraser River this weekend. On the other hand, with strong influences from the large lake
systems in the Thompson River (e.g. Shuswap, Adams, Kamloops), the Fraser River responds to
rainfall from those areas with a longer, attenuated, rise in river levels over a period of many
days. This is what is expected to occur over the coming week.
River levels through the Lower Fraser Valley are expected to drop slightly on Tuesday, and then
begin rising again towards next weekend. There is potential for increases above current levels
over the Friday to Monday (June 29th – July 2nd) period next week. The amount of rise will
depend on where and how much rain falls over the next few days.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
