River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Thompson River (UPGRADED), Shuswap Region (UPGRADED) Slocan River, Kettle River, Salmon River (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory –Nicola River - Merritt and upstream (DOWNGRADED), Columbia (NEW) South Interior, South-East BC (MAINTAINED) UPDATED: June 1, 2017 10:45 AM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 10:45AM on Thursday, June 1st are: North Thompson River – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) South Thompson River – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) Shuswap Region including the Shuswap River, Eagle River and surrounding tributaries – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) Slocan River – Flood Watch Kettle River and tributaries through Grand Forks, including the Granby River – Flood Watch Salmon River – Flood Watch Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – High Streamflow Advisory (NEW) Nicola River at Merritt and upstream, including Nicola Lake and tributaries – High Streamflow Advisory Nicola River downstream of Merritt – High Streamflow Advisory Okanagan including Mission Creek – High Streamflow Advisory Similkameen River including tributaries – High Streamflow Advisory West Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory East Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory Hot temperatures since the weekend have led to significant snow melt, and rising river levels. Thundershowers and rain over the past 24 hours has added to this runoff. Precipitation totals since yesterday have been in the 5-25 mm range, with the highest amounts of precipitation being observed in the East Okanagan, Shuswap, Kettle and West Kootenay regions. Current flow conditions and outlook include: Slocan River near Crescent Valley (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NJ013) is flowing at approximately 670 m3/s. Additional rainfall is expected on Thursday and flows are expected to additional rises into Friday. Flows in the 700-750 m3/s are possible, depending on additional rainfall amounts. Kettle River near Westbridge (WSC gauge 08NN026) is flowing at approximately 270 m3/s (5-year flow). Additional rises are expected into Friday and depending on rainfall amounts on Thursday, may reach or exceed levels experienced so far this season. Flows on the Kettle River downstream through to Grand Forks are expected to rise through Thursday and into Friday. Depending on additional rainfall on Thursday, flows may reach up to levels previously experienced earlier this season. Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) reached approximately 70 m3/s (approaching a 5-year flow). If rainfall over the next 24 hours is heavy in the watershed (10-20mm), additional rises up to 100 m3/s are possible. North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 2180 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year flow). Additional rises are expected through Thursday. South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 980 m3/s (2-year flow) and rising. Steady rises are expected through the rest of the week with forecasted flows in the 1200 m3/s range (5-year to 10-year flow) by the weekend. Additional rainfall is expected to fall today, with additional amounts in the 5-25mm range forecast through the region. Currently areas around the east Okanagan, Boundary and West Kootenay are expected to see the highest rainfall amounts on Thursday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
