River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory: Peace Region ISSUED: June 15 2016 10:45 AM The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Peace Region including streams near Pine Pass, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Dawson Creek, and Fort St John Rainfall from an Alberta Low has caused rapid increases in water levels in smaller streams overnight. Rainfall totals from Tuesday afternoon to this morning have ranged from 15 to 40 mm as of 8 am, with the higher totals recorded near Pine Pass and Lemoray. Environment Canada indicates this weather system is expected to continue to affect the region through Friday. Forecast rainfall totals range from 30 to 80 mm, with potential for snow at higher elevations. The higher totals are expected near Pine Pass and Hudson Hope. Water levels in smaller streams at higher elevation are expected to continue to rise through the day and overnight with flooding in low-lying areas. Major streams in the region are expected to begin to rise by this evening. Current flood forecast modeling indicates potential for flooding in low-lying areas along the following streams by late Thursday or into Friday: Murray River (WSC 07FB002) Moberly River (WSC 07FB008) Kiskatinaw River (WSC 07FD001) Other major streams in the region are expected to see high flows by Thursday, although flooding is not expected at this time. Further updates will be provided as flow forecasts are updated later today. The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers during rain events due to quickly flowing water and potentially unstable riverbanks. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
