Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region - High Streamflow Advisory – Bonaparte River (MAINTAINED), South Thompson (MAINTAINED), Thompson River at Spences Bridge (ENDED) ISSUED: 14:30 PM July 13th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Bonaparte River (MAINTAINED) South Thompson (MAINTAINED) Thompson River at Spences Bridge (ENDED) Rivers throughout the central region continue to recede from peaks experienced after the July 1st rain event. The Bonaparte River continues to slowly fall after peaking at ~82 m3/s on July 5th. However, flows remain high and continued recession of the river is likely to be slow given both the river’s behavior this season, as well as the potential for continued unsettled weather through the region. The South Thompson River continues to fall after peaking at 10-year flows on July 5th; however, it remains high (near its 5-year return period). The Thompson River at Spences Bridge has receded to 2-year flows. River levels are expected to continue to recede through the week. Unsettled weather this week may either slow the rate of recession in some rivers or modestly increase levels; however, significant additional rises in river levels are not expected at this time. Current observations as of Monday, July 13 at 13:30 PST: Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (08LF002) is flowing at 46 m3/s (5-10 year return period) South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1140 m3/s (2-5 year return period) Thompson River near Spences Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 2770 m3/s ( The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
