Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – Flood Watch – Quesnel River - High Streamflow Advisory – Middle Fraser (DOWNGRADED), Fraser River mainstem (MAINTAINED), Peace (ENDED), Northeast (ENDED), Upper Fraser (Ended) ISSUED: 14:00 July 13, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for: Quesnel River The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Middle Fraser tributaries including areas around Williams Lake and 100 Mile House The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Fraser River mainstem from Marguerite to Boston Bar The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Peace Region Northeast Upper Fraser River Heavy rainfall at the beginning of July has worked its way through river systems in the regions. Most rivers have receded towards normal conditions for this time of year. In some regions, flows are receding gradually and remain fairly high, particularly on the Quesnel River and tributaries in the Middle Fraser basin, including the San Jose River, Williams Lake River and Bridge Creek. Unsettled weather is still possible for the upcoming week. Continued recession of flows is expected for most rivers as we transition into summer conditions. The Quesnel River and San Jose River remain vulnerable to a basin-wide moderate to heavy rainfall event. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
