Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Slocan River (DOWNGRADED), Boundary (DOWNGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – Kootenay (DOWNGRADED) UPDATED: 10:30 May 22nd, 2018 The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories in the Southeast region are in effect as of Tuesday May 22nd, 1030hr: Flood Watch (DOWNGRADED) – Boundary , including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries Flood Watch (DOWNGRADED) – Slocan River High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) – West Kootenay, East Kootenay Rivers through the region have seen general improvement over the weekend, with moderate temperatures leading to decreased snow melt rates. In the Boundary, snow packs are becoming diminished leading to reduced flood risk from snow melt. In the Kootenay, rivers draining from higher elevation terrain still have enough snow to pose on-going risks from snow melt runoff. Temperatures are expected to remain high through Thursday of this week. Flows are expected to steadily rise through the week, particularly in the Kootenay region; by later in the week flows may return to previously observed levels or possibly higher. In the Boundary, small rises are possible, but flows are expected to remain well below levels observed last week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
