Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Kingcome River ISSUED: 9:00AM September 25, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Kingcome River A series of storms is impacting British Columbia coast. Rainfall amounts since Wednesday have been in the 75-120mm range through the region, and this rain has led to rising river levels. The Water Survey of Canada gauge Kingcome River below Atlazi River (08GF009) is at a gauge height of 8.1m and rising. Another period of rain is underway, with additional rainfall expected today and another storm on Saturday. Weather forecasts have rainfall totals over these periods in the 50-70mm range. Additional rises are expected on the Kingcome River through Friday and potentially into Saturday. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating potential rises up to 8.5m at the WSC gauge. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
