River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – South Thompson River, Shuswap River (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson River (DOWNGRADED), Thompson River (DOWNGRADED), Slocan River ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – Eagle River, Mission Creek, Kettle River, West Kootenay, East Kootenay, Columbia UPDATED: June 6, 2017 10:30 AM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 10:30AM on Tuesday, June 6th are: South Thompson River – Flood Watch Shuswap River – Flood Watch North Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Slocan River – High Streamflow Advisory Mission Creek – High Streamflow Advisory – ENDED Kettle River and tributaries through Grand Forks, including the Granby River – High Streamflow Advisory – ENDED West Kootenay – ENDED East Kootenay – ENDED Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – ENDED River levels throughout the region have been improving since the weekend, and in most areas river levels have seen significant declines over the past few days. On the Shuswap River, Mara Lake, Shuswap Lake and South Thompson River, levels have stabilized but remain at high (approximately 10-year return period levels). Similarly, the Slocan River near Crescent Valley (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NJ013) is maintaining flows in the 490-500 m3/s range (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). While rivers are showing signs of improvement, and indications that runoff from snow melt may have reached peak levels, levels are at or near bankfull condition and are very sensitive to additional runoff from rainfall. Current weather forecasts from Environment Canada indicate the potential for rain throughout the region later this week, and this may lead to additional rises in river and lake levels throughout the region. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
