Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Okanagan, Salmon River Flood Watch – Central Interior, Similkameen UPDATED: 1030h May 10th, 2018 The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories in the Central region are MAINTAINED as of Thursday 1030hr: Flood Warning – Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries in the Vernon, Kelowna, Penticton, Oliver and surrounding areas Flood Warning – Salmon River near Falkland and Salmon River near Salmon Arm Flood Watch – Similkameen River and tributaries including the Tulameen River Flood Watch – Central Interior including the Nicola River , Coldwater River , Bonaparte River, Guichon Creek and tributaries in the Merritt, Kamloops, Cache Creek and surrounding areas Rainfall on Wednesday has led to rapidly rising river levels throughout the region. Areas around the Okanagan and Salmon Arm area experienced the highest rainfall amounts, and areas to the west received lesser amounts. A summary of key rivers includes: Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) is flowing at 90 m3/s and is now receding. Peak flows reached approximately 120 m3/s late last night (100-year flow) Salmon River near Salmon Arm (08LE021) is flowing at 70 m3/s (100-year flow), with the rate of rise easing. Additional rises in the 5-10 cm range at the gauge are expected into the middle of Thursday Nicola River near Spences Bridge (08LG006) is flowing at approximately 360 m3/s (between a 20-year and 50-year flow) and holding steady. Rainfall was light yesterday in the region and significant rises are not expected Thursday Similkameen River near Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at approximately 600 m3/s (5-year to 10-year flow) . The upper reaches of the Similkameen received lighter rainfall amounts yesterday than forecast. River levels are expected to hold, or drop slightly through Thursday, however there is the potential for additional rises this weekend with warming weather Smaller river systems have reached their peak levels from this rainfall event, however flows are expected to remain high. Current weather forecast through the region today and tomorrow may be unsettled, but no significant rainfall or warming (i.e., rapid snowmelt) is expected. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
