Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Boundary High Streamflow Advisory – Kootenay UPDATED: 1130h May 11th, 2018 The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories in the South-East region are MAINTAINED as of Friday May 11, 1130hr: Flood Warning – Boundary , including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries High Streamflow Advisory – West Kootenay, East Kootenay Rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday has led to extreme flows across the region. River levels have peaked from this rainfall, and levels have been slowly receding Friday morning. A summary of key rivers includes: Kettle River near Westbridge (08NN026) is flowing at 320 m3/s (10-year flow) and receding Granby River at Grand Forks (08NN002) is flowing at approximately 480 m3/s (100-year flow) after peaking at 530 m3/s on Thursday West Kettle River at Westbridge (08NN003) is flowing at approximately 200 m3/s (200-year flow) and has dropped from a peak of approximately 310 m3/s on Thursday Weather is expected to begin to warm on Friday, with an extended period of warm to hot weather through the weekend and into next week. While river levels are expected to ease through Friday and Saturday, increasing snowmelt rates will lead to rises in levels into next week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
