Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Ended - Flood Warning – Pouce Coupe River UPDATED: 11:00am, July 25th, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Warning for: Pouce Coupe River below Henderson Creek In response to the localized storms, the POUCE COUPE RIVER BELOW HENDERSON CREEK (07FD007) has risen rapidly and peaked at a flow over the 100 year return period on Monday. The river level has dropped considerably in the past two days. Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the streamflow is expected to reach the normal level tomorrow. However, the current water level is still relatively high (about the 20 year return period) and the public is cautioned to stay clear of the river and unstable riverbanks within the next few days. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
