River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - Kingcome River (DOWNGRADED), Vancouver Island (West, Central), South Coast, Lower Fraser ( MAINTAINED ) ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – North Vancouver Island, Central Coast (except Kingcome River) UPDATE: October 18, 2017 4:15 PM The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Kingcome River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for Vancouver Island and Central Coast including: West Vancouver Island including streams in the Tofino, Bamfield and surrounding areas Central Vancouver Island including the Sproat River, Somass River and surrounding areas South Coast including the North Shore Mountains, Howe Sound (Squamish River, Stawamus River), Sunshine Coast and surrounding areas Lower Fraser including the Chilliwack River, Coquihalla River and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Vancouver Island including streams Gold River, Zeballos River, Tahsis, Port Alice and surrounding areas Central Coast including the Bella Coola River and surrounding areas Sea-to-Sky including Cheakamus River and Lillooet River A second of a series of storm events is currently passing over coastal British Columbia. The main focus of heavier precipitation has been sliding south-ward, and rainfall rates in the Central Coast and northern Vancouver Island have eased this afternoon. Further south, rainfall rates are currently high, with hourly precipitation rates in the 5-10 mm per hour range currently being observed on West, Central, East and South Vancouver Island, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains and in the Fraser Valley. Environment Canada has rainfall warnings out for the region. Along the Sea-to-Sky corridor, much of the precipitation is falling as snow and river flows in the region (including the Lillooet River, Cheakamus River and tributaries in the Whistler and Pemberton area) are no longer expected to see significant flows from this storm event. With precipitation rates easing off on the Central Coast, flows on the Kingcome River are no longer expected to reach up to levels experienced on Tuesday. Rises in flows are expected overnight, but should remain below bankfull conditions (eg. below 5.1 m on the ROMCOMM gauge near the village of Gwa-Yee). High flows are expected to persist through Wednesday evening as the remaining rainfall from this storm passes. In particular areas on Vancouver Island (except northern Vancouver Island), Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, and Fraser Valley (including the Chilliwack River) are expected to see the greatest rises in river levels overnight. Based on current rainfall forecasts, flows are expected to remain below 2-year return period levels. Additional river rises are possible later in the week, with an additional storm expected to impact the region on Saturday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
