River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning: Peace Region UPDATED: June 16 2016 8:15 AM Flood Watch: Northeast BC UPDATED: June 16 2016 8:15 AM The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the Flood Watch to a Flood Warning for: Peace Region including streams near Pine Pass, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Dawson Creek, and Fort St John The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Northeast BC including streams near Fort Nelson Rainfall from an Alberta Low has caused rapid increases in water levels in streams overnight in the region. Rainfall totals from the start of the event on Tuesday to 6 AM this morning range from 30 to 105 mm, with the higher totals recorded near Pine Pass, Chetwynd and southeast of Fort Nelson. As of early this morning, Environment Canada has maintained a rainfall warning for the South Peace River region. Details of the current weather affecting the province may be found here . Water levels have increased overnight in major streams in the region. Flow conditions as of Thursday morning are as follows: Pine River near East Pine (WSC 07FB001) is recording a flow of 3158 m 3 /s, which exceeds the 20-year return period flow. Water levels have risen 145 cm overnight and have reached a peak overnight. Moberly River (WSC 07FB008) is recording a flow of 81 m 3 /s, which is between the 2-year and 5-year return period flow. Water levels have risen 40 cm overnight and are continuing to rise this morning. Flows are forecast to reach between 100 and 120 m 3 /s by Thursday and peak early Friday morning. Peak flows may exceed the 10-year return period flow. Flows will begin to recede by late Friday. Kiskatinaw River (WSC 07FD001) is recording a flow of approximately 470 m 3 /s, which is close to the 50-year return period flow. Water levels have risen 140 cm overnight and are likely to continue rising this morning. Sukunka River (WSC 07FB003) is recording a flow of 907 m 3 /s, which exceeds the 20-year return period flow. Water levels have risen 30 cm overnight and have reached a peak overnight. Murray River near the mouth (WSC 07FB002) is recording a flow of 760 m 3 /s, which is close to the 5-year return period flow. Water levels have risen 54 cm overnight and have reached a peak overnight. Fontas River (WSC 10CA001) is recording a flow of 34 m 3 /s. Water levels have risen 15 cm overnight and are expected to continue to rise through the day Thursday. Flows are forecast to reach between 400 to 570 m 3 /s by Friday and peak by Saturday morning. Peak flows may approach the 20-year return period flow event. Smaller creeks have likely reached their peak for this event. River levels are expected to remain high throughout the day through the region. This flood warning will be updated later this morning with updated flood forecasts. Details on current road conditions, including closure information may be found at the DriveBC website by following this link . The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers during rain events due to quickly flowing water and potentially unstable riverbanks. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
