Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) – Quesnel River, Horsefly River High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser (NEW), San Jose/Bridge (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 3:00 PM June 1, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: Quesnel River Horsefly River Cariboo and including tributary rivers and streams near Williams Lake and Quesnel areas east, including the San Jose River, Bridge Creek The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Upper Fraser River including Prince George and upstream and tributaries including the Bowron River Cariboo and including tributary rivers and streams near Williams Lake and Quesnel areas east, including the San Jose River, Bridge Creek Flows through the region have been rising in response to snowmelt and rainfall over the weekend. Continued rises are expected through the early part of this week. On the San Jose River and Bridge Creek, flows remain elevated from flooding earlier in the spring; flows are expected to remain elevated however significant rises on not expected on these rivers at this time. A summary of current conditions includes: Horsefly River above Quesnel Lake (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08KH031) is flowing at 195 m3/s (between 2-year and 5-year flow) and rising. Flows are expected to reach around 200 m3/s (5-year flow) through the early part of this week Quesnel River near Quesnel (08KH006) is flowing at 1010 m3/s (10-year flow) and rising. Flows are expected to continue to rise through this week and may reach up to 1150 m3/s (between a 20-year and 50-year flow Bowron River near Box Canyon (08KD007) is flowing at 600 m3/s (20-year flow) and is near peak levels Fraser River at Shelley (08KB001) is flowing at 2960 m3/s (below a 2-year flow) and rising. Flows are expected to rise through this week, with flows in the 2-year range (3200 m3/s) over the Tuesday-Wednesday period The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
