River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Bulkley River (DOWNGRADING) UPDATE: May 14, 2017 9:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Bulkley River including small streams and tributaries around Houston, Telkwa, Smithers and surrounding areas A prolonged rain event has passed through the region over the past two days with rainfall totals observed at fire weather stations and automated snow weather stations has been in the 25-60mm range. Rivers in the region have been responding to this rainfall, with peak levels reached on Saturday. Current conditions include: Bulkley River at Quick (08EE004) is flowing at 500 m3/s (approximately a 2-year flow). Flows are slowly receding, and expected to continue through Sunday Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) is flowing at 810 m3/s (5-year flow) and a level of 4.8m. Peak levels were reached on Saturday, and slow declines in levels are expected through Sunday Other tributaries and smaller rivers in the region are also expected to see improving conditions through Sunday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
