Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast ISSUED: January 26, 2018 9:15 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing the High Streamflow Advisories for: Central Coast including the Kingcome River, Bella Coola River and surrounding areas An atmospheric river storm event is expected to impact Vancouver Island and the south coast of British Columbia on Sunday and Monday. Current forecasts from the storm system for the Central Coast range between 40-60mm. The upcoming storm is targeted to impact a focussed area with heavy rainfall. Recent weather model runs have shown a gradual northerly shift for the heaviest rain. It is possible that the track of the atmospheric river continues to change and the heavy rain becomes centred on the Central Coast on Sunday/Monday instead of Vancouver Island and the south coast. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level of advisory. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level of advisory. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level of advisory.. Links: River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
