River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – South Peace Region High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River ENDED – Flood Watch – McGregor, Skeena-Bulkley ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – Nass region ISSUED: June 11, 2017 9:00 AM A summary of updates for advisories as of 9:00AM Sunday, June 11, 2017 is: Flood Watch - South Peace Region and surrounding areas including Pine Pass and tributaries around Tumbler Ridge, Chetwynd, and Mackenzie (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory - Fraser River through Hansard, Shelley and Prince George (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory - McGregor River (DOWNGRADED) ENDED – Flood Watch - Skeena River and tributaries, including the Bulkley River ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory - Nass River, Iskut River and tributaries around Kispiox, Meziadin Junction and Bob Quinn Lake Heavy rain fell across northern BC on Thursday and Friday. Rainfall totals observed were in the 20-70 mm range through the Skeena, Bulkley and Northwest BC, 15-80 mm through the Upper Fraser River basin, and 30-100 mm through the Peace, Williston, and Mackenzie region. Additional rain on Saturday (10-30 mm) was focused around the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains. Rivers have been responding rapidly to this rainfall. Most rivers have now peaked for this event, including areas around the Skeena, Bulkley, Nass, and smaller streams in the Williston and South Peace. Larger rivers in the South Peace and areas around Mackenzie are still rising and near peak levels. A summary of conditions is: Skeena River at Usk (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08EF001) peaked at 6000 m3/s (5-year flow) and 11.17m yesterday, and is now receding. Continued declines are expected Sunday and into next week Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) peaked at 825 m3/s (5-year flow) and 4.82m yesterday, and is now receding Fraser River at Shelley (08KB001) is flowing at 3260 m3/s (2-year flow) and may see additional rises up to 3600 m3/s (5-year flow) later on Sunday Pine River near East Pine (07FB001) is peaked at 2370 m3/s (approaching a 10-year flow). Flows are expected to slowly recede through Sunday, but remain elevated Osilinka River near End Lake (07EC004) is flowing at 455 m3/s (50-year flow) and approaching peak levels Mesilinka River above Gopherhole Creek (07EC003) is flowing at 480 m3/s (20-year flow) and approaching peak levels Peace River near Taylor (07FD002) is flowing at 3000 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow). Small additional rises are expected on Sunday. Smaller rivers through the region have experienced their peak levels for this event. Larger river systems are approaching or near peak level. The current weather outlook through the remainder of the weekend should allow for improving conditions on Sunday and into next week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
