Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Nazko – West Road River (MAINTAINED) Flood Watch – Central Interior (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – BC Interior (MAINTAINED) & Bulkley River (NEW) ISSUED: 2:00 PM April 30, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for: Nazko River and West Road River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Central Interior including the Bonaparte River, and tributary rivers around Cache Creek, Merritt, Williams Lake, Quesnel and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: South Interior Boundary Kootenay Peace The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for Bulkley River including Buck Creek and areas around Houston and Smithers. Temperatures cooled over the weekend after seasonally hot weather last Wednesday to Friday. Snow melt rates began to slow down Sunday with mid-elevation snow stations melting at 5-20 mm/day, while some higher elevation sites accumulated trace amounts of snow. Snowmelt rates are expected to be subdued for the first part of the week, then pick up later in the week due to higher temperatures. High streamflow is being observed in many river systems fed by low-to-mid elevation terrain. These areas include: Okanagan - including tributaries in the Oliver, Osoyoos, Summerland, Penticton, Kelowna, Vernon and surrounding areas Similkameen - including the Tulameen and tributaries Boundary - including the West Kettle River, Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries Kootenay - including the Moyie River and mid-elevation tributaries in the Castlegar, Trail, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas Peace – including tributary rivers draining plateau areas around Fort St. John, Dawson Creek and surrounding areas Bulkley – including Buck Creek and other areas around Houston and Smithers. In the Central Interior (Cariboo), very high flows are being observed. At the West Road River near Cinema (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08KG001), flows are estimated to be 410 m3/s (50-year flow) and rising slightly. On the Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (WSC 08LF002), flows are estimated to be 40 m3/s (approximately a 5-year flow), with levels easing slightly since Saturday. Modelling is indicating the potential for flows to increase slightly on Monday in some watersheds before a general lowering through much of the week. Warmer temperatures are forecast for later this week, and will lead to another period of increased snow melt towards the end of the week and into the weekend. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
