River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch: Peace Region UPDATED: June 15 2016 1:30 PM Flood Watch: Northeast BC ISSUED: June 15 2016 1:30 PM The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the High Streamflow Advisory to a Flood Watch for: Peace Region including streams near Pine Pass, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Dawson Creek, and Fort St John The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Northeast BC including streams near Fort Nelson Rainfall from an Alberta Low has caused rapid increases in water levels in streams overnight in the region. Rainfall totals up to 11am this morning range from 15 to 60 mm, with the higher totals recorded near Pine Pass. Environment Canada indicates this weather system is expected to continue to affect the region through Friday. The system has evolved to include a centre of accumulation in the Peace region and a centre in the Northeast region. Forecast rainfall totals range from 50 to 100 mm over the next 48 hours. The higher totals are likely near Pine Pass and Hudson Hope and southeast of Fort Nelson. Water levels in smaller streams at higher elevation have risen rapidly today and are forecast to continue rising through Thursday in the Peace region with flooding in low-lying areas. Water levels in major streams in the region are expected to continue to rise through Friday and possibly Saturday. Based on current precipitation forecasts and streamflow conditions, flood forecast modeling indicates flooding is likely along the following streams and their smaller tributaries by Thursday and into Friday: Moberly River (WSC 07FB008) is forecast to reach flows between 100 and 120 m3/s by Thursday and peak early Friday morning. Peak flows may exceed the 10-year return period flow. Flows will begin to recede by late Friday. Kiskatinaw River (WSC 07FD001) is forecast to reach flows between 300 and 430 m3/s by Thursday and peak early Friday morning. Peak flows may exceed the 10-year return period flow. Flows will begin to recede by late Friday. Fontas River (WSC 10CA001) is forecast to reach flows between 400 to 570 m3/s by Friday and peak by Saturday morning. Peak flows may approach the 20-year return period flow event. Flows will begin to recede by late Saturday. Other major streams in the region are expected to see high flows by Thursday, although flooding is not expected at this time. Flows will vary depending on the actual precipitation totals for a given basin. The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers during rain events due to quickly flowing water and potentially unstable riverbanks. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
