River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO index Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory: Vancouver Island ISSUED: October 12 2016 1:00 PM The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for Vancouver Island , including: South Vancouver Island including the Englishman River, Chemainus River, Cowichan River and surrounding creeks and tributaries Central Vancouver Island including the Tsolum River, Browns River, Sproat River, Somass River and surrounding creeks and tributaries North Vancouver Island including the Salmon River, Gold River, and surrounding creeks and tributaries A series of Pacific storms are forecast to impact the BC coast over the next several days. The first system is expected overnight Wednesday and through Thursday, a second storm early Friday, and a third on Saturday. Heavy rainfall is expected with each storm and current forecasts from Environment Canada indicate the potential for 80 - 200mm or more of cumulative total precipitation on Vancouver Island from these three storms. Rivers across the region are expected to rise rapidly on Thursday in response to rainfall, and remain elevated into the weekend, with increased flows likely as each of the remaining two systems move through. Current weather forecasts indicate that the storms will be of increasing intensity and severity from Thursday to Saturday. Specific details, including locations of highest rainfall intensity and the period of time between each storm, are important factors in determining flood risk during the upcoming storm period. These factors are expected to become clearer over the next few days. Hydrologic modelling based on current weather forecasts indicates the possibility of flood conditions over the Saturday to Sunday period, particularly over the Central Vancouver Island region during these storms. High flows are expected in watersheds on North and South Vancouver Island, however current modelling is suggesting that there is a lower likelihood of these systems reaching flood stage. This outlook may change based on the ultimate track and rainfall patterns of each storm system. Streams with tidal influence may be further impacted by high tides and storm surge . The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers during rain events due to quickly flowing water and potentially unstable riverbanks. Current public weather alerts from Environment and Climate Change Canada can be found by following this link . The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
