Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - South Coast and Vancouver Island ISSUED: 3:45 PM December 31, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Vancouver Island including West Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island, South Vancouver Island and East Vancouver Island South Coast including tributaries around the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Squamish, Lillooet River, North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver, Fraser Valley and surrounding areas The end of 2020 and beginning of 2021 is an active period for storm systems on Vancouver Island and the South Coast. In the past 48-hours, some locations on Vancouver Island have received up to 75-200 mm precipitation. The response has been subdued in most rivers with only a few stations reaching 1-year return period flows. Another storm system is arriving on Thursday evening, followed by a couple more strong systems on Saturday. These storms will affect Vancouver Island and the South Coast. Exact location of the heaviest precipitation is still uncertain. Freezing Levels are expected to rise and could reach up to 2400m. Rivers are forecast to reach their highest flows on Saturday or Sunday depending on the timing and intensity of the rainfall. There is a possibility that additional storms will arrive early next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
