River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River ISSUED: May 31, 2017 10:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Fraser River including areas of the main stem river from the Fraser Canyon downstream to the ocean River levels have been rising in response to hot temperatures and rapid snowmelt in the Fraser River basin. Runoff from hot temperatures over the weekend and early this week are expected to lead to additional rapid rises along the lower Fraser River from Wednesday to Saturday of this week. Flows at the Fraser River at Hope (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MF005) are expected to reach 9500-10,000 m3/s by Friday and into Saturday. This is between a 2-year and 5-year return period flow and below flow levels that were observed in 2007 (11,200 m3/s) and 2012 (11,900 m3/s). Low-lying areas on the river side of flood protection infrastructure have previously been impacted by flows at the Fraser River at Hope in the 9,000 m3/s to 10,000 m3/s range. Water levels at the Fraser River at Mission (WSC 08MF024) are forecasted to reach 5.9-6.05m over the Sunday to Tuesday period. Complete water level forecasts from the Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations Flood Safety Section for various locations along the Lower Fraser River can be found on the River Forecast Centre website: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/index.htm . Local impacts of these water levels are dependent on flood protection infrastructure and other measures put in place by local authorities. Local governments along the Lower Fraser River may provide additional information to potentially impacted residents. After reaching peak levels this weekend, flows are expected to recede slowly next week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor river levels and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
