River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories (NEW) Flood Watch – Kettle River and Shuswap Region tributaries Flood Watch – Mission Creek and Salmon River (Maintained) High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior, Central Interior, Boundary, South-East BC (Maintained) UPDATED: May 5, 2017 2:00 PM The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: Kettle River Shuswap Region including tributary streams The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Mission Creek Salmon River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior, Central Interior and South-East BC including: South Interior including small streams and rivers around Princeton, Tulameen, Penticton, Osoyoos, Kelowna, Vernon, Kamloops, Salmon Arm and surrounding areas Central Interior including the Bonaparte River and small streams around Merritt, Cache Creek, Clinton and surrounding areas Boundary including the Granby River and small streams and rivers around Grand Forks and surrounding areas South-East BC including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas Hot weather over the past two days has led to significant snow melt. Thunderstorms overnight and Friday have brought intense rainfall to areas of across the region with 5-20 mm of precipitation observed so far. Creeks and rivers have been rising rapidly this morning. Current conditions as of early afternoon include: West Kettle River at Westbridge (WSC 08NN003) is flowing at 162 m3/s (5-year flow) Mission Creek near East Kelowna (WSC NM116) is flowing at 77 m3/s (5-year flow) Salmon River at Falkland (WSC 08LE020) was flowing at 35 m3/s (10-year flow) Salmon River near Salmon Arm (WSC 08LE021) is flowing at 36 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) Radar indicates that additional rainfall passed through the Okanagan Valley, Shuswap and Boundary region over the past few hours. Additional thundershowers and rainfall is expected through the rest of the day, with forecasts from Environment and Climate Change indicating the potential for an additional 10-20 mm of precipitation, particularly through the Okanagan, Shuswap and Boundary. Flows through these areas are expected to see additional rises through Friday, and ease into Saturday as rain tapers off. Flows on Mission Creek are forecasted to reach up to 90 m3/s later today or overnight. The West Kettle River is forecast to reach flows around 200-250 m3/s later Friday or early Saturday. Flows on the Salmon River near Salmon Arm are expected to remain below 50 m3/s. High flows are also expected in small streams systems throughout the Shuswap Region in response to rainfall this afternoon; flows on the Shuswap River itself is expected to remain below levels of concern. Flows may be higher than forecast, particularly if areas receive higher than forecast rainfall amounts or if rainfall rates are high. Other creeks and rivers through the region are expected remain high through Friday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
