Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Bonaparte River Flood Watch – South Thompson, North Thompson, Thompson River at Kamloops High Streamflow Advisory – Tributaries of South Thompson (DOWNGRADED), Tributaries of North Thompson (DOWNGRADED), Thompson River at Spences Bridge, High Streamflow Advisory - Salmon River (ENDED) ISSUED: 11:00 AM July 5th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for: Bonaparte River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: South Thompson River (MAINTAINED) North Thompson River Thompson River at Kamloops and downstream to Spences Bridge (MAINTAINED) The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River including Blue River, Clearwater River and surrounding tributaries (DOWNGRADED) Tributaries of the South Thompson including Shuswap River, Shuswap Lake, Adams River (DOWNGRADED) Thompson River at Spences Bridge (MAINTAINED) The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Salmon River Heavy rainfall fell across the region earlier in the week. Runoff from this rainfall has been working its way through rivers of the region. In headwater tributaries, the peak has past and river levels are now easing. On the larger tributaries, including the mainstem of the North Thompson River, Shuswap Lake and the South Thompson River and the Thompson River at Kamloops, flows are at or just past peak level. Delayed routing of flows on the Bonaparte River is leading to continued rises today, with peak levels expected later today of 80-85 m3/s (approximately a 50-year flow). Most recent observations are: North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 1880 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) and receding South Thompson at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1250 m3/s (10-year flow) and appears to have reached peak levels. The river remains sensitive to additional rainfall and may see additional rises Thompson River at Kamloops (08LF023) peaked at 7.8m gauge height and is now receding The Bonaparte River is flowing at (08LF002) is flowing at 80 m3/s (approaching a 50-year flow), with the rate of rise now easing. Flows are expected to peak in the 80-85 m3/s range on Sunday Flows along the mainstem of the Thompson River, from Kamloops downstream through Kamloops Lake and to Spences Bridge are expected to remain high. On the Bonaparte River, high levels are expected on Sunday. Other areas are expected to see continued improvement of flows through Sunday and into next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
