Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Nazko River and West Road River (UPGRADED) Issued: 1:45 PM April 28, 2023 The RIver Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: Nazko River and West Road River Weather Synopsis: A strong upper ridge has built across B.C. and will remain through the weekend. Temperatures are expected to rise up to +10°C above normal. Temperatures may lower slightly on Monday as a low-pressure system affects the South Coast. However, temperatures are expected to remain relatively high through next week. River Conditions: The Nazko River and West Road River region is a challenging area to forecast due to a shortage of snow measurement and hydrometric (river flow) stations. Based on current forecasts from the CLEVER model, the West Road River and Nazko River are expected to increase rapidly due to snowmelt from hot temperatures this weekend. The rivers could reach 5-year return period flows, or high higher, by Monday. Flows could continue to increase through the week depending on how much snow remains in the watershed. The public is advised: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-flowing bodies of water is dangerous: Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high streamflow rivers or streams Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of drowning During a Flood Watch, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests: Tel: 778-698-8453 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
