Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region – Flood Watch – Similkmeen (UPGRADED), Nicola (UPGRADED), Okanagan, Salmon River, Bonaparte River; High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson, South Thompson, Shuswap ISSUED: 8:15 AM May 31, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Watch for: Similkameen and tributaries including the Ashnola River (UPGRADED) Nicola River including Upper Nicola River above Nicola Lake and downstream through Spences Bridge (UPGRADED) Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby, Winfield, Kelowna, Penticton, Osoyoos including Mission Creek and Mill Creek and surrounding areas Salmon River near Salmon Arm Bonaparte River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Thompson River including mainstem and Clearwater River and smaller tributaries South Thompson River including Shuwsap River and tributaries In areas throughout the region, river levels have been high due to snowmelt, and in watersheds with snow remaining warm temperatures the past few days has accelerated snowmelt rates. Yesterday, active convection brought intense rainfall across parts of the region, with the most intense cells of precipitation falling in areas in the headwaters of the Similkameen River including the Ashnola and through Manning Park, Nicola River and areas around Merritt, and areas in the North Thompson River watershed. Lower amounts of precipitation were observed in the Okanagan Valley and Shuswap and South Thompson watersheds. Rainfall amounts were generally in the 5-25 mm range, with areas of most intense rain reaching upwards of 30-40mm. Additional rainfall is expected today, however the most intense forecast rainfall patterns are forecasted to occur further east of the Central Region. Additional rainfall amounts for the remainder of Sunday are forecast to be in the 5-20 mm range. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
