River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Kingcome River UPGRADED: November 22, 2017 9:45 PM The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: Kingcome River A series of storm systems is passing over coastal British Columbia, bringing extended period of rain and warm temperatures. Rainfall totals through Wednesday were in the 30-60mm range through the region. Snow melt is also contributing to streamflow runoff. Rainfall rates in the region are still relatively high, with 3-5mm/hour being observed at the Nostetuko Snow Weather Station. The river level on the Kingcome River has been rising rapidly through the day. The gauge at the Gwa-Yee Village is currently at 3.73 m, and rising at approximately 15-20 cm/hour. Similarly, the Water Survey of Canada gauge (08GF009) is currently at 6.47 m and rising at 20 cm/hour. Additional rises in river levels up to 1.0-1.5 m are possible overnight into Thursday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
