Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories ENDED: Flood Watch – North and West Vancouver Island ENDED: High Streamflow Advisory – Central and South Coast Updated: 9:00 AM January 04, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Watch for: North Vancouver Island including Port Alice, the Zeballos River, Pugh Creek, San Josef River, Simpson Creek and surrounding areas, West Vancouver Island including Tofino, the Sarita River, Carnation Creek and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is ending the High Streamflow Advisory for: Central Coast including the Bella Coola River, Kingcome River and tributaries, South Coast including Howe Sound, North Shore, and Metro Vancouver Heavy rainfall over the region since Thursday has now eased. Rivers have reached peak levels from this event, and are now receding. In some large rivers, like the Kingcome River, flows remain high, and are expected to slowly drop throughout the day on Saturday. No significant additional rises in river levels are expected. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
