Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo ISSUED: 10:30 AM April 15, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cariboo Region, including the San Jose River, Baker Creek, Nazko River, West Road River and tributaries around Williams Lake, Quesnel and Prince George A high-pressure ridge has set up across British Columbia, bringing along the first significant spell this freshet of seasonally hot weather to the Province. Daytime temperatures have been gradually increasing through the week, with daytime highs of 17°C observed in Prince George and Williams Lake yesterday. Temperatures are forecast to continue to climb on Thursday and Friday, and peak on Saturday with daily high temperatures in the low-20's. Overnight low temperatures are also expected to rise; below-freezing temperatures were observed earlier this morning in Prince George and Williams Lake, and are daily minimum temperatures are forecast to rise to 2-4°C by Saturday at these locations. Snow packs at higher elevations have not yet transitioned to snowmelt, and this warming is expected to lead to snowpack ripening. At mid-elevations (900-1300m) snow packs are closer to ripe, with increased snowmelt runoff expected through this period of warmer weather. Mid-elevation rivers are expected to see significant rises through the rest of this week, and into the Saturday and Sunday period. This includes tributaries and terrain across most of the plateau areas around the Cariboo, including tributary rivers in the Prince George, Quesnel, Williams Lake and Chilcotin area. Persistent high antecedent flow conditions in some rivers, including the San Jose River, may have increased vulnerabilities to higher flows due to reduced river capacity and more rapid runoff from soil and groundwater conditions. Longer range hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flows to reach or exceed 20-year return period flows in some areas over the weekend and into early next week; if runoff trends over the next day or two continue to indicate this potential risk, advisories will be upgraded as required. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
