Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Okanagan (NEW) Boundary (NEW) Salmon River (NEW) Flood Watch – Dean River (NEW) South Interior, Similkameen, Bulkley River, Central Interior, Nazko – West Road River (DOWNGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – Nechako, Kootenay, Peace, Prince George area ISSUED: 1500h May 9th, 2018 River Forecast Centre is UPGRADING to a Flood Warning for: Okanagan – including Mission Creek and surrounding tributaries Boundary – including West Kettle River, Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries Salmon River near Salmon Arm River Forecast Centre is ISSUING a Flood Watch for: Dean River below Tanswanket Creek The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories are MAINTAINED as of Monday 1000hr: Flood Watch – Nazko – West Road River (DOWNGRADED); Central Interior including the Bonaparte River, Baker Creek, Nicola River, Guichon Creek, Coldwater River and tributary rivers around Cache Creek, Merritt, Williams Lake, Quesnel and surrounding areas; Similkameen River , Tulameen River and surrounding tributaries; Bulkley River including tributaries around Houston, Smithers and adjacent areas High Streamflow Advisory – West Kootenay, East Kootenay, Lower Columbia , Peace , Prince George area , Nechako Following several days of warm weather and rapid snowmelt, Wednesday has transitioned into rainy weather through much of the BC Interior. As of Wednesday afternoon, the largest rainfall amounts have been through the Okanagan, Boundary and Salmon Arm regions, with rainfall amounts in the 5-30mm range being observed. River levels have begun responding to this rainfall, and rapid rises in levels are expected through the rest of Wednesday and into Thursday. A summary of key rivers includes: Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) is flowing at 90 m3/s and rising rapidly. Peak flows of approximately 110-140 m3/s are forecasted into Thursday (near or exceeding 2017 and 2013 levels) Salmon River near Salmon Arm (08LE021) is flowing at 60 m3/s and rising rapidly. Peak flows of approximately 65-75 m3/s are forecasted into Thursday (50-year to 100-year flow) Kettle River near Westbridge (08NN026) is flowing at 290 m3/s (5-year flow) and rising. Peak flows of approximately 350-400 m3/s (20-year to 50-year flow) are forecast into Thursday Granby River at Grand Forks (08NN002) is flowing at approximately 335 m3/s (5-year flow) and rising. Rapid rises are expected into Thursday with forecasted peak levels in the 400-500 m3/s range (exceeding 2017 levels) Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) is flowing at 1020 m3/s (5-year flow) and rising. Flows up to 1200 m3/s (20-year) are forecast through Thursday and Friday With rainfall on Wednesday, rivers throughout the Okanagan, Boundary and Shuswap are expected to see extremely high flows through Wednesday and into Thursday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
