River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Bulkley River ISSUED: October 25, 2017 10:00 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Bulkley River including tributaries around Smithers and surrounding areas A series of storm systems has passed across the Central Coast over the past two days, bringing heavy rainfall throughout the region. Rainfall totals over the past 2 days at the Tsai Creek Automated Snow Weather Station have approached 200 mm, with other weather stations in the region reporting 40-150 mm over the same period. River levels have been rising in response to this rainfall. The Bulkley River near Smithers (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08EE005) is currently at 820 m3/s and a gauge height of 4.9 m and rising. Additional rises of 0.2-0.5 m are possible through Wednesday. Typically localized flooding around the Bulkley River occurs at these levels. Peak levels are expected Wednesday afternoon, and weather conditions are favourable for improving conditions Thursday and the rest of the week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
