Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) - Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, North Shore, Fraser Valley (North) High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – Squamish River, Sea-to-Sky, Fraser Valley (South) UPDATED: 11:40AM November 27, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is downgrading a Flood Watch to a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast including: Metro Vancouver – including the Serpentine and Nicomekl Rivers and local streams Howe Sound - including the Stawamus River and tributaries along the Sea-to-Sky Highway Sunshine Coast – including watersheds around Gibsons and Sechelt North Shore – including the Seymour River and watersheds around North Vancouver and West Vancouver Fraser Valley (North) – including mountainous tributaries from Coquitlam to Harrison The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Squamish River Sea-to-Sky – including tributary watersheds along the Sea-to-Sky corridor north of Squamish to Whistler Fraser Valley (South) – including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries A series of intense Pacific storms impacted the South Coast and Vancouver Island yesterday and overnight. Observed rainfall totals for this event, since Sunday afternoon, have been in the 60-170 mm range through the Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, and North Shore Mountains. Rivers have been responding to this rainfall, with peak levels being experienced in most rivers on Monday, or early on Tuesday. Some river systems, including the Mackay Creek, Seymour River, Stawamus River, upper Coquitlam River, and upper Stave River reached between 2-year and 10-year return period flows. River levels in other areas generally remained below 2-year flow. Precipitation is expected to continue through Tuesday, with significantly reduced rainfall rates than were observed on Monday. River levels in most areas are expected to remain elevated through Tuesday, however significant additional rises are not expected at this time. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
