River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Peace Region, Bulkley-Skeena ISSUED: June 8, 2017 12:00 PM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: South Peace Region and surrounding areas including Pine Pass and tributaries around Tumbler Ridge, Chetwynd, and Mackenzie Skeena River and tributaries, including the Bulkley River A Pacific frontal system is expected to sweep across British Columbia on Thursday, reaching the northern BC interior tonight. Heavy rain is expected across the region overnight Thursday and into Friday. Environment Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the region, and rainfall in excess of 50 mm is possible over the next 48 hours. There is still some uncertainty over how the system will pass and which locations will receive the highest amount of precipitation. Rivers throughout the region are expected to respond to this rainfall on Friday, with peak flows expected over the Friday to Saturday period. There is the potential for flooding with this system, and this advisory may be upgraded to a Flood Watch as more confidence is gained in observed rainfall rates and amounts. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
