Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Ended - Flood Watch - Pine River Ended - High Streamflow Advisory - Peace Region around Fort St. John Updated: 11:00am, July 22nd, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Watch for: The Pine River and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is ending the High Streamflow Advisory for: Peace Region around Fort St. John including the Kiskatinaw River, Pouce Coupe River, Dawson Creek, and tributaries Responding to the heavy rainfall in the region, streamflows of the river systems have risen rapidly yesterday. The Pine River and tributaries have peaked at the 5 to 20 year return period flows yesterday afternoon or early this morning. The Peace River and tributaries have peaked yesterday or are peaking today at about the 2 year return period flows. The rainfall is easing and the river levels are receding now or expected to recede later today. No major flood risks are expected in this region recently though small rises of river levels are still possible. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
