River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Slocan River (UPGRADED), Kettle River, Salmon River, Nicola River - Merritt and upstream (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – Thompson River (NEW) South Interior, South-East BC (MAINTAINED) UPDATED: May 30, 2017 12:45 PM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 12:30PM on Tuesday, May 30th are: Slocan River – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) Kettle River and tributaries through Grand Forks, including the Granby River – Flood Watch Salmon River – Flood Watch Nicola River at Merritt and upstream, including Nicola Lake and tributaries – Flood Watch Thompson River including the South Thompson River, North Thompson River and tributaries – High Streamflow Advisory (NEW) Okanagan including Mission Creek – High Streamflow Advisory Shuswap Region including the Shuswap River, Eagle River and surrounding tributaries – High Streamflow Advisory Similkameen River including tributaries – High Streamflow Advisory West Kootenay including Slocan River, Salmo River, and surrounding areas – High Streamflow Advisory East Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory Nicola River downstream of Merritt – High Streamflow Advisory Hot temperatures since the weekend have led to significant snow melt, and rising river levels. Weather is expected to shift through Tuesday, with potential showers in the western areas of the region, and shifting Wednesday further eastward. Easing temperatures will reduce snow melt rates, however flows are expected to remain high, or rise higher, in response to the added precipitation. Current flow conditions and outlook include: Slocan River near Crescent Valley (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NJ013) is flowing at approximately 520 m3/s. Flows are expected to rise to 550-570 m3/s into early Wednesday, and up to 600-650 m3/s over the Wednesday to Thursday period. If local rainfall exceeds 20mm on Wednesday-Thursday, higher flows are possible. West Kettle River at Westbridge (WSC gauge 08NN003) is flowing at 135 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). Additional rises are expected into Wednesday, and are currently expected to remain below flow levels experienced last week and earlier in May. Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) reached approximately 60 m3/s earlier Tuesday (2-year flow). Additional rises into Wednesday are expected from snowmelt and precipitation. Flows are expected to remain below 10-year flow levels (80-90 m3/s) unless rainfall is higher than anticipated (5-15mm) Coldwater River at Merritt (08LG010) is flowing at 65 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow). Small additional rises are expected into Wednesday. Flows are expected to remain below flows experienced last week unless rainfall is higher than anticipated (5-15mm). Similkameen River near Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at approximately 350 m3/s (approaching 2-year flow). Additional rises are expected into Wednesday and Thursday, with forecasted flows up to 600 m3/s (5-year to 10-year flow). North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 1860 m3/s (2-year flow) and is expected to see on-going rises through Thursday. Flows are expected to reach the 2000-2200 m3/s range (5-year to 10-year flow). Flows are expected to recede into the weekend. South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 980 m3/s (2-year flow) and rising. Steady rises are expected through the rest of the week with forecasted flows in the 1200 m3/s range (5-year to 10-year flow) by the weekend. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
