Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Nicola Lake (NEW), Central Okanagan (NEW) Bonaparte River, North Okanagan, Salmon River, North and South Thompson Rivers ISSUED: 11:00 AM June 5th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Nicola Lake (NEW) Central Okanagan including tributaries around Kelowna including Mission Creek and Mill Creek and surrounding areas (NEW) Bonaparte River North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby, Winfield and surrounding areas Salmon River near Salmon Arm North Thompson River including mainstem and Clearwater River and smaller tributaries South Thompson River including Shuswap River, Shuswap Lake and tributaries On most tributaries and mid-elevation watersheds, river conditions have been improving over the past few days. However, in many rivers, flows remain high from snowmelt and earlier rainfall, and rivers are sensitive to additional runoff from rainfall, Particularly over this weekend and early next week. Weather forecasts into the weekend indicate on-going showery and unsettled weather, with the potential for more organized rainfall across the region on Sunday. Hydrologic modelling is not indicating significant rises this weekend, however rivers remain sensitive, and periods of rain over the weekend could lead to rising river and lake levels over the weekend and into next week. A summary of current conditions as of 10:00AM Friday June 5th includes: Nicola Lake near Quilchena (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08LG046) is currently at a 626.5m and slowly receding (approximately a 5-year to 10-year lake level). Lake levels remain vulnerable to additional rainfall Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (08LF002) is flowing at 48 m3/s (between and 5-year and 10-year flow) and receding. Conditions are expected to continue to improve Salmon River at Falkland is flowing at 20 m3/s (2-year flow) and receding. Current modelling is indicating continued improvement in river levels, however additional rise are possible over the weekend and early next week with rainfall into the watershed Shuswap River at Lumby and Enderby has reached peak levels from rainfall and snowmelt last weekend. Current flows are in the 2-year to 10-year range. Additional rises are possible late-weekend and early next week, particularly if higher rainfall amounts occur in the Monashee Mountains over the weekend South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1220 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year flow) with the rate of rise easing. Similar conditions are occurring on Shuswap Lake. Additional rises are possible late-weekend and into next week, depending on weekend rainfall in the headwaters North Thomson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 1700 m3/s (2-year to 5-year flow) and receding. Additional rises are possible late-weekend and into next week, depending on weekend rainfall in the headwaters The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
