River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior, South-East BC (NEW) Flood Watch – Nicola River - Merritt and upstream (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory –Salmon River (MAINTAINED) UPDATED: May 21, 2017 11:00 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Okanagan including Mission Creek (NEW) Shuswap Region including the Shuswap River, Eagle River and surrounding tributaries (NEW) Boundary including the Kettle River (NEW) Similkameen River including tributaries (NEW) West Kootenay including Slocan River, Salmo River, and surrounding areas (NEW) East Kootenay (NEW) Nicola River downstream of Merritt – High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) Salmon River – High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Nicola River at Merritt and upstream, including Nicola Lake and tributaries – Flood Watch (MAINTAINED) A high pressure ridge is building across British Columbia, and expected to bring hot weather across the province. Temperatures in southern BC are expected to reach to the upper twenty degree to low thirty degree level. Snow melt rates have been moderate over the past few days, and are expected to increase significantly over the next few days. River levels are expected to respond to this snow melt, with increasing river levels expected throughout the Sunday to Tuesday, or Wednesday, period. In the South Interior and Central Interior, reports suggest that snow line elevation is around the 1600 m level. Automated snow weather station (ASWS) data from Brenda Mines (2F18P) at 1453 m showed approximately 30 mm of snowmelt yesterday, and is now out of snow. Mission Creek ASWS (2F05P) at 1794 m elevation experienced 23 mm of melt yesterday, and still has over 500 mm of snow water equivalent remaining. High elevation snow melt rates are expected to rise to the 30-40 mm per day, or higher, through Tuesday. With diminishing mid-elevation snow, watersheds which drain from predominantly mid-elevation terrain are likely to be experiencing diminished flood risk, despite the hot temperatures. This includes the Nicola River upstream of Nicola Lake, Bonaparte River and some smaller tributary rivers in the Okanagan basin such as Vernon Creek and Coldstream Creek. In rivers that are fed by higher elevation terrain, significant rises are expected over the Sunday through Tuesday or Wednesday period. This includes: the Similkameen River and tributaries; areas of the Okanagan including Mission Creek, Shatford Creek and surrounding high elevation-fed rivers in the Penticton through Oliver/Osoyoos area; the Shuswap region including the Shuswap River, Eagle River, Seymour River; Coldwater River and downstream reaches of the Nicola River (Merritt and downstream); Boundary region including the Kettle River and Granby River; West Kootenay including the Slocan River and smaller streams; East Kootenay including the Moyie River and smaller streams. Current modelling is indicating that flows up to the 2-year return period flow are likely, and in some areas flows above this level are possible. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
