Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Englishman River, Little Qualicum River (DOWNGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – Central, Eastern, Southern Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED) ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – West Vancouver Island, Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, North Shore, Fraser Valley ISSUED: 2:30 PM January 4, 2019 The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Englishman River (DOWNGRADED) Little Qualicum River (DOWNGRADED) Central Vancouver Island – including Sproat River, Somass River, Port Alberni and surrounding areas East Vancouver Island – including Parksville, Qualicum and surrounding areas South Vancouver Island – including the Chemainus River, Koksilah River, Cowichan River and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Howe Sound – including the Stawamus River and tributaries along the Sea-to-Sky Highway Sunshine Coast – including watersheds around Gibsons and Sechelt North Shore – including the Seymour River and watersheds around North Vancouver and West Vancouver Fraser Valley – including the Chilliwack River, and mountainous tributaries on the north side of the Fraser Valley West Vancouver Island – including tributaries around Tofino, Bamfield, Port Renfrew and surrounding areas An intense Pacific frontal system impacted south-west British Columbia over the past two days, bringing heavy rainfall across the region. Rainfall amounts in the 200-300+ mm range were observed on West Vancouver Island, and 60-150+ mm in Central Vancouver Island, Eastern Vancouver Island, Southern Vancouver Island, Howe Sound and the Lower Mainland. Rivers have responded to this rainfall, with many real-time Water Survey of Canada hydrometric gauges on Vancouver Island reaching 2-year to 20-year return period flows. For most areas, peak flows have occurred and river levels are now receding. High flows persist in areas of central, eastern and southern Vancouver Island, including the Sproat River, Stamp River, Somass River, Millstone River, Nanaimo River, Cowichan River, Englishman River, and Little Qualicum River. Elevated flows in these regions are expected to continue through Friday; however, significant additional rises are not expected at this time. River levels are expected to continue to improve into the weekend. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
