River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Peace Region (UPGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – North-east BC (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: May 11, 2017 4:30 PM The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: Peace Region including small streams and rivers around Dawson Creek, Chetwynd, Fort St. John, Hudson’s Hope and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: North-east BC including tributaries to the Sikanni Chief, Prophet and Muskwa Rivers and surrounding areas south-west of Fort Nelson A prolonged rain event is forecast for north-east BC over the late-Thursday through Sunday period. Current weather forecasts from Environment Canada indicate the potential for rainfall totals in the 50 to 90 mm range over the Thursday to Saturday morning period. Environment Canada has issued a rainfall warning for the region, and rainfall have begun to be observed at some automated weather stations in the region. Snow melt is also contributing to streamflow in the region, with current snow melt rates of 5-15 mm/day being observed at regional automated snow weather stations. Temperatures are expected to cool as this system develops, and snowmelt rates will likely decline as the weekend progresses. Rivers in the region are expected to respond to the combined rainfall and snowmelt, with rising flows starting Thursday night, and extending Friday into Saturday, and potentially Sunday for larger river systems. With current rainfall forecasts and snowmelt, there is the potential for moderate flooding from this event. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
