Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia (ISSUED) ISSUED:12:30 PM June 1st, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Upper Columbia Region The weekend experienced severe thundershowers and rain across the region. Rainfall amounts in the 10-35 mm range have been observed since Saturday. The rainfall followed directly after the warmest days of the year. River levels have been rising in response to this rainfall. Some river levels are currently in the 2-year to 5-year flow range throughout the region. Further precipitation is forecast for the Upper Columbia on Tuesday. Additional rises are possible. A summary of current conditions includes: Blaeberry River above Willowbank Creek (08NB012) is flowing at 115 m3/s (5-year flow) and beginning to recede. Kicking Horse River at Golden (08NA006) is flowing at 290 m3/s (5-year flow) and still rising. Illecillewaet River at Greeley (08ND013) if flowing at 300 m3/s (2 -year flow) and receding. It reached 370 m3/s (5-year and 10-year flow) overnight. Columbia River at Donald (08NB005) is flowing at 627 m3/s (slightly below 2-year) and still rising gradually. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
