Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch - San Jose River (Upgraded) - High Streamflow Advisory - Cariboo & Prince George (Maintained) Updated: 3:00 PM April 18, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: The San Jose River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cariboo Region, including Baker Creek, West Road River and tributaries around Williams Lake, Quesnel and Prince George A strong high-pressure ridge has set up across British Columbia and the maximum temperatures in the Cariboo region reached over 20°C over the past four days (April 14 to 17). The overnight minimum temperatures have remained relatively cool and dropped below 0°C over the same period in Quesnel. In the mountains, the Automated Snow Weather Station 1C41P - Yanks Peak East – elevation 1,670 m – has averaged 16.0°C maximum temperature and 3.3°C minimum temperature over the past three days (April 15 to 17). The warm temperatures have produced significant snow melt at lower and mid-elevations and flows in Cariboo rivers have been rising steadily. The San Jose River above Borland Creek (08MC040) is responding the most and currently flows at 16 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year return period). It is likely to increase above a 10-year flow over the next couple days. Maximum temperatures are expected to decrease beginning today (April 18). Current hydrologic modeling indicates that the river levels in this region could rise again in the upcoming week due to higher overnight minimum temperatures. Please refer to the page of forecast for details. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
