Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – Boundary (Kettle/Granby) ISSUED: 2:15 PM May 19, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Boundary Region including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and tributaries Precipitation over the long weekend in the 15-25 mm range was observed throughout the Boundary region. This rainfall has led to rapid rises in river levels on Monday. River levels have generally reached peak levels from runoff from this rainfall event, and flows remain high throughout the region. Flows are near 2-year return period levels on the West Kettle, Kettle and Granby Rivers. River levels are expected to remain elevated over this week with on-going melt of snow pack in contributing watersheds. Over this period, rivers are sensitive to additional rises from rainfall. Unsettled weather is expected through this week, with current weather forecasting indicating rainfall further east of the Boundary region into the Kootenays. If these patterns shift west into the Boundary and the headwaters of the Kettle and Granby Rivers this week, additional rises on river levels are likely, and may be above peak levels experienced over the past couple of days. Current forecasting is indicating that flows should remain below the 2-5 year range throughout the region. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
