Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River (DOWNGRADED), Upper Fraser, Middle Fraser, Fraser River mainstem ISSUED: 14:00 July 21st, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Quesnel River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Upper Fraser River, including tributaries like the McGregor River, Dore River and McKale River Fraser River mainstem from Marguerite to Boston Bar Middle Fraser tributaries including areas around Williams Lake and 100 Mile House River levels have been receding over the past couple of days, following rainfall last week and over the weekend. Flows are expected to continue recede over the next day or two. Rainfall is expected Thursday and Friday this week and may lead to another round of rising river levels later this week and into the weekend. Current modelling suggests that high flows are possible, and forecasts are expected to become more refined closer to the rainfall event. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
