Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region Flood Watch – South Thompson River (Maintained), North Thompson River (MAINTAINED), Thompson River at Kamloops (MAINTAINED), Tributaries of South Thompson (UPGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – Thompson River at Spences Bridge (MAINTAINED), Salmon River (ISSUED), Bonaparte River (ISSUED) ISSUED: 2:00 PM July 2nd, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or upgrading to a Flood Watch for: South Thompson River (MAINTAINED) Tributaries of the South Thompson including Shuswap River, Shuswap Lake, Adams River (UPGRADED) North Thompson River including Blue River, Clearwater River and surrounding tributaries (MAINTAINED) Thompson River at Kamloops and downstream to Spences Bridge (MAINTAINED) The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Thompson River at Spences Bridge (MAINTAINED) Salmon River (ISSUED) Bonaparte River (ISSUED) A strong and widespread system (forecast to last until at least Friday) is currently distributing heavy rainfall over the region. Larger river systems in the Thompson reached up to 10-year and 20-year flows over the past weekend due to snowmelt and rainfall from last week. Since then, most systems fell to 1-10 year flows but are rising due to this current weather system, and are forecast to the meet or exceed the highest levels of year observed this season for the North Thompson River, South Thompson River and the Thompson River at Kamloops. Most recent observations are: North Thompson River at Birch Island (08LB047) is flowing at 657 m3/s (1-year flow) North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 1700 m3/s (between a 1-year and 2-year flow) Clearwater River near Clearwater Station (08LA001) is flowing at 1190 m3/s (2-year flow) South Thompson at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1250 m3/s (10-year flow) Thompson River near Spences Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 3130 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) The Bonaparte River is flowing at (08LF002) is flowing at 55 m3/s (between a 10 – 20 year flow) A significant, widespread rainfall event began Wednesday, July 1st and is forecast to continue through at least Friday, Jul 3rd. Between 25-65 mm of rain has already fallen within regions of the North and South Thompson, with an additional 20 - 30 mm possible today and into Friday. Today’s CLEVER model forecast is predicting that flows on the North Thompson could reach 10-year flows; the South Thompson River at Chase is forecast to rise slightly above 10-year flows. The combined impact of forecasted high flows for the North Thompson River and South Thompson River could result in significantly high levels for the Thompson River at Kamloops over the weekend. Uncertainty remains over forecasted peak flows over the next few days, and higher than predicted flows are possible. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
