Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Bonaparte River Issued: 3:00 PM April 18, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: The Bonaparte River A strong high-pressure ridge has set up across British Columbia and the maximum temperatures in the Thompson region reached over 20°C during the past four days (April 14 to 17), with Kamloops reaching above 25°C over the last two days. The warm temperatures are producing significant snow melt at lower and mid-elevations. The Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (08LF002) has been steadily rising and is flowing at 24 m3/s (2-year flow). Today's CLEVER model forecast predicts flows to remain near 2-year return period levels in the upcoming days. Due to the hydrological complexities of the lake systems upstream and lack of real-time data within the Bonaparte River watershed, there is uncertainty in the model forecast. Last year, the CLEVER model under-forecast the initial rise of the river during warm weather in mid-April. It's possible the model is under-forecasting for the upcoming week. Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page ( http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html ) for details. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
