Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region – Flood Watch - Salmon River (UPGRADED), Bonaparte River (MAINTAINED); High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – North Thompson Tributaries, North Okanagan, Nicola River ISSUED: 3:30 PM May 26, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: Salmon River near Salmon Arm The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Bonaparte River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River around Clearwater and Barriere Nicola River including Upper Nicola River above Nicola Lake and downstream through Spences Bridge North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby and Winfield River levels have remained elevated due to on-going snowmelt and episodes of precipitation. Some rivers have experienced more rapid rises over the past day in response to rainfall. A high-pressure system is expected to build through this week, with rising temperatures starting Wednesday and extending for 3-4 days. In areas with some mid-elevation snowpack remaining, rivers levels may see additional rises through the rest of the week; this includes the Bonaparte River, Nicola River, Salmon River, tributaries in the North Thompson River and in the North Okanagan and Shuswap Region. In these regions, flows may exceed levels that have previously been experienced this year. Flows are generally expected to remain in the 2-year to 5-year range, except on the Bonaparte River and Salmon River, where current flows are near 20-year return periods and expected to see additional rises. As the high-pressure ridge moves out of British Columbia over the weekend, rainfall is possible and may lead to more significant river rises over the weekend or early next week. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
