Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Boundary ISSUED: 3:00 PM May 6, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Boundary Region including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and tributaries Snowmelt runoff has been contributing to rising flows in most areas over the past week or two. A frontal system is passing over BC and has been bringing rainfall to the watershed in the region. Over the past 24 hours 15-25mm of precipitation has been observed at Fire Weather Stations and Automated Snow Weather Stations in the region. Additional rainfall is expected later today and overnight. A ridge of high pressure is expected to build in the wake of this trough, with temperatures expected to rise into the weekend. River levels are expected to rise over the next 24-48 hours in response to rainfall occurring in the headwaters of the West Kettle, Kettle and Granby Rivers. As temperatures warm, snowmelt is expected to increase with additional rivers rises over the weekend. Hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for streamflow in the 2-year to 5-year return period range. These rises may happen as early as midday Thursday and into Friday, with a period of higher flows expected over the weekend and into next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
