River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – South Thompson River, Shuswap River High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson River, Thompson River, East Kootenay (NEW), West Kootenay (NEW), Columbia (NEW) UPDATED: June 8, 2017 12:15 PM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 12:15PM on Thursday, June 8th are: South Thompson River – Flood Watch Shuswap River – Flood Watch North Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – High Streamflow Advisory Slocan River – High Streamflow Advisory West Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory (NEW) East Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory (NEW) Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – High Streamflow Advisory (NEW) River levels throughout the region have been improving since the weekend, and in most areas river levels have seen significant declines over the past few days. On the Shuswap River, Mara Lake, Shuswap Lake and South Thompson River, levels have stabilized but remain at high (approximately 10-year return period levels). Similarly, the Slocan River near Crescent Valley (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NJ013) is maintaining flows in the 490-500 m3/s range (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). Rainfall is expected to pass over the region over the next two days as a cold upper low is expected to impact British Columbia. Higher rainfall amounts (15-30mm) are currently being forecasted for areas of the Kootenay and Columbia region, and lesser amounts through the South Interior. Through the Thompson Region, including the North Thompson River and Thompson River, flows are not forecasted to exceed flows that were experienced last week. On Shuswap Lake and the South Thompson River, modest rises above previous levels are possible. In the Kootenay and Columbia region, current modelling is indicating the potential for flows to exceed those that have been experienced earlier this season, and some rivers may approach flood stage. There is still uncertainty over how this weather system will pass, and rainfall rates may be higher or lower than forecasted. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
