Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia (NEW) ISSUED: 12:30 PM July 1, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Upper Columbia Over the past 24-hours, the Upper Columbia has received 5 to 20 mm of precipitation at high elevation automated snow weather stations. A further 30 to 50 mm of precipitation is possible through Friday. Today’s CLEVER model run has forecasts for the Upper Columbia rivers reaching 5-year to 20-year flows in response to the wet weather. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
