River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – North Coast – Kitimat/Terrace/Kemano Flood Watch – North Coast – Other Areas, Haida Gwaii High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast (Nass/Stewart) ISSUED: October 25, 2017 10:20 AM As of 10:20 AM the River Forecast Centre is maintaining the following warnings and advisories : Flood Warning - North Coast including the Kitimat River, Little Wedeene River, Kemano River, Hirsch Creek and other rivers and creeks in the Kitimat, Terrace, Kemano and surrounding area Flood Watch - North Coast including areas around Prince Rupert and Highway 16 west of Terrace Flood Watch - Haida Gwaii including rivers and creeks on Graham Island and Moresby Island High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast including the Nass River and Stewart Heavy rain has impacted the region over the past two days. Storm rainfall totals have been in the 60-200 mm range, with the highest amounts around Kitimat, Terrace, Kemano and Haida Gwaii. Rivers have responded rapidly throughout the region, with extremely high flows being observed. A summary of conditions include: Zymoetz River above OK Creek (WSC 08EF005) peaked at 7.2m. This is estimated to be a 50-year to 100-year return period flow Kloiya River near Prince Rupert (08EG016) peaked at 80 m3/s (2-year to 5-year return period flow) and is now receding Kemano River above Powerhouse Tailrace (08FE003) peaked at 4.95m and is now receding. This is estimated to be a 50-year to 100-year return period flow Kitimat River below Hirsch Creek (08FF001) peaked at 5.95m and is now receding. This is estimated to be between a 20-year and 50-year return period flow Hirsch Creek near the mouth (08FF002) peaked at 3.21m and is now receding. This is estimated to be between a 20-year and 50-year return period flow Little Wedeene River below Bowbyes Creek (08FF003) peaked at 340 m3/s (10-year return period flow) Yakoun River near Port Clements (08OA002) is currently flowing at approximately 370 m3/s (approaching a 5-year return period flow) and rising. Peak levels are expected Wednesday afternoon. Rainfall has eased through the region, and while most rivers have reached peak levels, they are expected to remain high through Wednesday. Weather conditions are favourable for improving conditions into Thursday and the rest of the week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
