Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories South-east Region - High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – Boundary ISSUED: 4:00 PM May 11, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Boundary Region including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and tributaries Rainfall last week and accelerated snowmelt over the weekend have led to high streamflow through the Boundary region, including the West Kettle River, Kettle River, Granby River and tributaries. Temperatures are expected to ease through this week. Unsettled weather patterns are expected, with the potential for showers Tuesday and into Wednesday. Precipitation totals for this event are currently in the 10-15 mm range however localized rainfall may be higher, and the exact positioning of showers is uncertain, but possible throughout the region. Streamflow is expected to remain high through this week, with a potential for increased flows on Wednesday in response to precipitation. Flows are expected to reach around the 2-year return period level through the Kettle and Granby Rivers, and potentially higher in the West Kettle River and it's tributaries. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
