Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, North Shore, Fraser Valley (North) High Streamflow Advisory – Squamish River, Sea-to-Sky, Fraser Valley (South) UPDATED: 11:30 AM November 26, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for the South Coast including: Metro Vancouver (NEW) – including the Serpentine and Nicomekl Rivers and local streams Howe Sound - including the Stawamus River and tributaries along the Sea-to-Sky Highway Sunshine Coast – including watersheds around Gibsons and Sechelt North Shore – including the Seymour River and watersheds around North Vancouver and West Vancouver Fraser Valley (North) – including mountainous tributaries from Coquitlam to Harrison The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Squamish River Sea-to-Sky – including tributary watersheds along the Sea-to-Sky corridor north of Squamish to Whistler Fraser Valley (South) – including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries A series of intense Pacific storms is impacting the South Coast and Vancouver Island. Heavy rain has occurred overnight and this morning across the region, and is expected to continue through the day on Monday. Observed rainfall totals so far have been in the 20-60 mm range through the North Shore Mountains and Howe Sound. Heavy rain is expected to continue throughout the day today. Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued rainfall warnings for the region, indicating the potential for 60-80 mm of rainfall through Tuesday morning, and amounts up to 90-120 mm over higher terrain. River levels are expected to rise rapidly in response to this rainfall throughout Monday and overnight into Tuesday. Shallow snow accumulations at mid-elevations over the past few days are expected to melt with warmer temperatures, and will contribute additional runoff to streams. Additional heavy rainfall is expected to continue throughout the day. Peak flows are expected late Monday and into Tuesday. Hydrologic modelling of current weather forecasts is indicating the potential for flood levels in streams and rivers in the Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, North Shore, Fraser Valley (North) and Metro Vancouver areas. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
