Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning - Boundary (MAINTAINED) Flood Watch - West Kootenay (DOWNGRADED) East Kootenay (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 3:00PM June 1st, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for: Boundary Region including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or downgrading to Flood Watch for: West Kootenay including the Slocan River, Salmo River and surrounding tributaries (DOWNGRADED) East Kootenay including the Moyie River and surrounding tributaries (MAINTAINED) The weekend experienced severe thundershowers and rain across the region. Total rainfall amounts in the 10-50mm range were observed on the weekend. River levels rose rapidly in response to this rainfall. River levels in the 2-year to 20-year flow range are being observed throughout the region. Levels in the Boundary and East Kootenay are currently reaching their peak flow. Rivers in the West Kootenay peaked Sunday evening and are steadily receding. A summary of current conditions includes: West Kettle River at Westbridge (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NN006) reached a flow of 167 m3/s (5-year and 10-year flow) at 9:00am Kettle River neat Westbridge (08NN026) reached a flow of 350 m3/s (10-year and 20-year flow) at 11:00am. This is likely the peak flow from the recent rainfall Granby River at Grand Forks (08NN002) reached a flow of 366 m3/s year (5-year and 10-year) at 12:00pm Slocan River near Crescent City (08NJ013) is flowing at 551 m3/s (5-year flow) and peaked last night. Flows are expected to continue to decline Salmo River near Salmo (08NE074) is flowing at 276 m3/s (2-year and 5-year) and peaked last night. Flows are expected to continue to decline Kalso River below Kemp Creek (08NH005) peaked yesterday and is now receding Bull River near Wardner (08NG002) is flowing at 265 m3/s (2-year and 5-year) and peaked last night. Flows are expected to continue to decline Kootenay River at Fort Steele (08NG065) is flowing at 1350 m3/s (10-year flow) The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
