Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 1:00 PM November 13, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cariboo region including tributary rivers around Williams Lake, 100 Mile House, Quesnel and surrounding areas Over the past week the Cariboo region has experienced favourable weather conditions to help lessen ongoing high flows. Temperatures have cooled considerably, and precipitation has fallen primarily as snow, even at lower elevations. River levels have been dropping over the past five days. Current conditions include: San Jose River above Borland Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MC040) is currently flowing at an estimated flow of 11-12 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year flow) Baker Creek at Quesnel (08KE016) is receding and flowing at 21 m3/s (less than a 2-year flow) River levels are expected to continue to gradually recede through Monday as colder and snowy conditions persist for the regions. The slow recession of flows means that many rivers are still very high for this time of year and the region is highly vulnerable to another heavy rainfall event, especially if temperatures are warm. As of this morning (released Friday, November 13 at 10 am), the Environment and Climate Change Canada weather forecast for Tuesday, November 17 at Williams Lake and Quesnel is for a maximum temperature of 11 degrees with periods of rain. These forecast conditions, combined with the relatively high flows and likelihood of low elevation snow melting, could lead to another significant flood event over the region beginning on Tuesday and continuing to the end of next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
