River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Thompson River, Shuswap River Slocan River, Kettle River, Salmon River (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – Eagle River (DOWNGRADED), Slocan River (DOWNGRADED), Mission Creek (DOWNGRADED), Kettle River (DOWNGRADED), West Kootenay, East Kootenay, Columbia ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – Nicola River, Okanagan, Similkameen, Salmon River UPDATED: June 3, 2017 10:45 AM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 10:45AM on Saturday, June 3rd are: North Thompson River – Flood Watch South Thompson River – Flood Watch Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – Flood Watch Shuswap River – Flood Watch Slocan River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Mission Creek – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Kettle River and tributaries through Grand Forks, including the Granby River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) West Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory East Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – High Streamflow Advisory Salmon River – ENDED Nicola River at Merritt and upstream, including Nicola Lake and tributaries – ENDED Nicola River downstream of Merritt – ENDED Okanagan Region – ENDED Similkameen River including tributaries – ENDED Rainfall earlier in the week has now passed through most of the rivers in the region, and more settled weather is now persisting. Small and medium-sized rivers have continued to see improved river levels. On some river systems, flows remain high and may see additional rises. Current flow conditions and outlook include: Slocan River near Crescent Valley (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NJ013) is flowing at approximately 550 m3/s. Flows are expected to continue to decline through the weekend but may see rises next week due to rain Flows on the Kettle River downstream through to Grand Forks have reached peak levels and are expected to continue to recede. Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) reached approximately 80 m3/s (10-year flow) yesterday morning, and has been receding since. Continued drops in river levels are expected through the weekend North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 2315 m3/s (10-year flow). It is expected to remain high through Saturday, with declining flows into the start of next week. South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1200 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year flow) and rising. Steady rises are expected through the weekend and into next week. Flows up to 1400 m3/s are forecast later next week. Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream through to Spences Bridge are expected to see continued rises. Flows may not reach a peak in Kamloops until Sunday or Monday, and later downstream at Spences Bridge Shuswap River near Enderby (08LC002) is flowing at 475 m3/s (20-year flow) and rising. Flows upstream have appeared to have reached peak levels, however additional rises through Enderby and downstream through to Mara Lake are expected to see additional rises through the weekend. Flows are expected to be similar to conditions in 2012. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
