River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – South Peace Region, Bulkley-Skeena, McGregor River (NEW) High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River (NEW), Nass River, Iskut River ISSUED: June 10, 2017 7:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is adding or maintaining a Flood Watch for: McGregor River (NEW) South Peace Region and surrounding areas including Pine Pass and tributaries around Tumbler Ridge, Chetwynd, and Mackenzie Skeena River and tributaries, including the Bulkley River The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Fraser River through Hansard, Shelley and Prince George (NEW) Nass River, Iskut River and tributaries around Kispiox, Meziadin Junction and Bob Quinn Lake Heavy rain fell across northern BC on Thursday and Friday. Rainfall totals observed were in the 20-70 mm range through the Skeena, Bulkley and Northwest BC, 15-80 mm through the Upper Fraser River basin, and 30-100 mm through the Peace, Williston, and Mackenzie region. Rain has now eased. Rivers have been responding rapidly to this rainfall. Most rivers are now at or near peak levels for this event. A summary of conditions is: Skeena River at Usk (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08EF001) is flowing at 5570 m3/s and at a gauge level of 10.7m, and further rises up to 11.0 m are expected through Saturday morning and early afternoon. Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) is at approximately 4.8m and is at or near peak level McGregor River at Lower Canyon (08KB003) is flowing at approximately 1700 m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow). Additional rises up to 1800-1900 m3/s are expected over the next few hours Fraser River at Shelley (08KB001) is flowing at 2300 m3/s and may see additional rises up to 3100 m3/s (2-year flow) through Saturday and into Sunday Parsnip River above Misinchinka River (07EE007) is flowing at 815 m3/s (2-year flow) and is at or near peak level Pine River near East Pine (07FB001) is flowing at 1580 m3/s and rising at 75 m3/s per hour. Flows up to 1800-1900 m3/s (5-year flow) are expected through Saturday Carbon Creek near the mouth (07EF004) peaked at approximately 300 m3/s (20-year flow) and is now receding Smaller rivers through the region have experienced their peak levels for this event. Larger river systems are approaching or near peak level. The current weather through the remainder of the weekend should allow for improving conditions on Sunday and into next week. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
