Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Nazko – West Road River Flood Watch – South Interior (NEW) Boundary (NEW) Bulkley River (NEW) Central Interior High Streamflow Advisory – Nechako (NEW), Kootenay, Peace, Prince George area ISSUED: 1000h May 7th, 2018 River Forecast Centre is UPGRADING to a Flood Watch for: South Interior – including Mission Creek, Similkameen River, River and surrounding tributaries Boundary – including West Kettle River, Granby and surrounding tributaries Bulkley River – including tributaries around Houston, Smithers and adjacent areas including Burns Lake River Forecast Centre is ISSUING a High Streamflow Advisory for: Nechako River – including Vanderhoof, Nautley River and tributaries in the Burns Lake, Fraser Lake and surrounding area The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories are MAINTAINED as of Monday 1000hr: Flood Warning - Nazko River and West Road River Flood Watch - Central Interior including the Bonaparte River, Baker Creek, Nicola River, Guichon Creek, Coldwater RIver and tributary rivers around Cache Creek, Merritt, Williams Lake, Quesnel and surrounding areas High Streamflow Advisory – Kootenay, Peace, Prince George area Snowmelt rates rose over the weekend with steadily increasing temperatures High streamflow is being observed in many river systems across the BC Interior. These areas include: Okanagan - including tributaries in the Oliver, Osoyoos, Summerland, Penticton, Kelowna, Vernon and surrounding areas Central Interior – including the Nicola River, Coldwater River, Guichon Creek, Bonaparte River and surrounding tributaries Similkameen - including the Tulameen and tributaries Boundary - including the West Kettle River, Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries Kootenay - including the Moyie River and mid-elevation tributaries in the Castlegar, Trail, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas Peace – including tributary rivers draining plateau areas around Fort St. John, Dawson Creek and surrounding areas Bulkley – including Buck Creek and other areas around Houston and Smithers Prince George area – including the Salmon River, Mud River, Chilako River and surrounding areas Nechako – including tributary flows in the Nautley River and flows through Vanderhoof to Prince George Temper a tures are expected to continue to rise or remain high on Monday and Tuesday. Rivers that experienced rises over the weekend are expected to continue that steady rise for the next two days. On Wednesday, a low pressure trough is expected to swing into British Columbia, bringing cooler temperatures but more organized rainfall. Present weather forecasting from Environment and Climate Change Canada is indicating the potential for 15-30mm of rain through much of the southern third of the province, and less amounts through other areas. Current hydrologic modelling from the River Forecast Centre is indicating the potential for extremely high flows later this week. The magnitude of forecasted flows higher than is realistic, however the potential for flows in the 10-20 year range, or higher, in many of the noted rivers is likely. These include areas under a Flood Watch. In areas under High Streamflow Advisory, flows are currently forecast to remain below a 10-year level. Given current river levels and weather outlook, this week could see significant flooding in many areas. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
