River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - Somass River, Cowichan River (MAINTAINED) ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Southern Vancouver Island ISSUED: November 24, 2017 11:15 AM The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Somass River including Sproat River, Stamp River and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisories for: Southern Vancouver Island including the Nanaimo River, Chemainus River Koksilah River and surrounding areas except Cowichan River Rain and snowmelt earlier in the week has now passed through river systems in the region. Flows are expected to continue to recede Friday and into the weekend. With lake influence in the Cowichan and Sproat/Somass Rivers, levels are expected to drop slowly. Additional rainfall is expected over the weekend, and additional rises in river levels are possible. Preliminary hydrologic modelling for the Somass River is indicating the potential for higher flows Sunday and Monday than have been experienced over this past week. Current projections indicate the potential for estimated flows on the Somass River of approximately 800 m3/s, or similar to 2015 flood levels. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
