River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Nicola River, Salmon River, Mission Creek, Kettle River, Granby River High Streamflow Advisory – Central Interior, South Interior South-East BC UPDATED: May 12, 2017 11:00 AM The following is the status of flood watches and advisories as of 10AM on Friday morning: Nicola River including upstream tributaries – Flood Watch Salmon River – Flood Watch Mission Creek – Flood Watch Kettle River including West Kettle River and Boundary Creek – Flood Watch Granby River – Flood Watch Shuswap Region including small streams and rivers around Salmon Arm, Enderby, Sicamous and surrounding areas – Flood Watch Okanagan including small streams and rivers around Vernon, Lumby, Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas – Flood Watch Central Interior including the Bonaparte River and areas around Cache Creek – High Streamflow Advisory (Downgraded) Similkameen including the Tulameen and Similkameen Rivers - High Streamflow Advisory (Downgraded) West Kootenay including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo and surrounding areas - High Streamflow Advisory East Kootenay including small streams and rivers around Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas - High Streamflow Advisory Columbia including small streams and rivers around Revelstoke, Golden and surrounding areas - High Streamflow Advisory Thundershowers moved through the region Thursday afternoon and overnight. Rainfall totals since yesterday are in the 5-15mm range for most of the region. Temperatures have cooled significantly, with overnight temperatures reaching below freezing at high elevation areas. Runoff has been less significant than expected. In larger river systems, rivers are still expected to continue to respond through the day on Friday, and into Saturday. Current conditions include: Coldwater River near Merritt (WSC 08LG010) is flowing at approximately 47 m3/s (below a 2-year flow) and rising Salmon River near Salmon Arm (08LE021) is flowing at 44 m3/s (5-year flow) and rising Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) is flowing at approximately 60 m3/s (2-year flow) and rising West Kettle River at Westbridge (08NN003) is flowing at approximately 135 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) and rising Granby River at Grand Forks (08NN002) is flowing at approximately 220 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow) and rising Similkameen River near Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at approximately 330 m3/s (below a 2-year flow) and is nearing peak levels On larger river, or rivers with upland lakes or storage, rainfall is still working down through the rivers, and flows are expected to continue to rise through Friday. On smaller systems, rivers have likely reached peak levels for this event. At this point, diminished rainfall amounts yesterday and overnight and cold temperatures at elevation are indicating that peak flow levels during this event are not likely to exceed levels that were observed last week and weekend as previously forecasted. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
