Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - Cariboo (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 10:30 AM November 4, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cariboo region including tributary rivers around Williams Lake, 100 Mile House, Quesnel and surrounding areas A heavy precipitation event last week impacted the region and resulted in unseasonable high flows in rivers and creeks. Additional rain Tuesday/Wednesday has maintained the prolonged period of unseasonable high flows. Current conditions include: San Jose River above Borland Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MC040) is currently flowing at an estimated flow of 15 m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow) since Monday Baker Creek at Quesnel (08KE016) has slowly risen over the past two days and is flowing at 44 m3/s (2-year flow) For most rivers in the region, flows are well above the observed historic range of conditions for this time of year. Flows are expected to remain high through the week and there is potential for some additional rises in rivers from the most recent precipitation. The weather forecast indicates drier and colder conditions beginning Thursday and lasting through the weekend. Flows are expected recede by the weekend. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
