Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Pine River and Peace Region around Fort St. John ISSUED: 11:30am, July 19th, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: The Pine River and tributaries, Peace Region around Fort St. John including the Beatton River, Kiskatinaw River, Pouce Coupe River, Dawson Creek, and tributaries Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) is forecasting an upper low pressure system to move across central BC today and continue drifting eastwards into the Prairies over the weekend. This system will bring heavy rainfall from 40 to 100 mm to the eastern slopes of the Rockies in a swath stretching from Sikanni Chief to Kakwa Provincial Park. Current hydrologic model forecasts indicate that the river systems in this region will rise rapidly in response to the rainfall tonight into the weekend and will peak on Saturday or Sunday at about the 5-year return period flows. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
