River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Columbia Region (UPGRADED), East Kootenay (UPGRADED) Slocan (UPGRADED), South Thompson River, Shuswap River High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson River, Thompson River, West Kootenay UPDATED: June 9, 2017 10:00 AM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 10:00 AM on Friday, June 9th are: Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) East Kootenay – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) Slocan River – Flood Watch (UPGRADED) South Thompson River – Flood Watch Shuswap River – Flood Watch Eagle River - High Streamflow Advisory (NEW) North Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – High Streamflow Advisory West Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory River levels have been rising rapidly overnight and early Friday morning in response to rain and thundershowers. Rainfall amounts in the 5-30mm range have been observed throughout the region, with the highest amounts occurring through the Columbia region and East Kootenay. Rivers are expected to continue to rise through Friday, and may approach or exceed flood level in the Columbia (including Kicking Horse River), East Kootenay (including the Elk River) and Slocan River. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update on conditions later today. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
