Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Central Coast (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast (ENDED) ISSUED: 10:30 AM October 28, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River, Owikeeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding areas A slow-moving frontal system is currently sweeping across the Central Coast. A first wave of precipitation fell on Monday and Tuesday, with rainfall totals in the 60-70 mm range being observed in the Bella Coola Valley and 15-40 mm observed in the North Coast. The system has stalled over the Central Coast, bringing a second wave of rainfall today through Thursday. Precipitation for the remainder of this storm on Wednesday and Thursday is forecast to be in the 80-150 mm range, with the heaviest rainfall focused on the outer coast regions of the Central Coast (e.g. Ocean Falls, Bella Bella) and inland areas from the Bella Coola Valley south to the Kingcome River. Freezing levels are expected to be in the 2000-2500m range today and dip down to 1500m by Friday. Snowmelt observed at Automated Snow Weather Stations has been in the 10-20 mm range, and it is expected that most low and mid-elevation snow has melted and further runoff contributions from rain-on-snow are not expected. Rivers have risen rapidly due to rainfall. In the North Coast, rivers have peaked and have now subsided. With limited additional rainfall forecast for the North Coast, rivers are expected to continue to improve. On the Central Coast, river levels are high and at or near peak levels as a result of the first wave of rainfall yesterday. Rivers may experience a brief levelling or improvement in advance of rises that are anticipated from the second wave of rainfall today and Thursday. Flows are expected to continue to rise late on Wednesday and into Thursday. Current rainfall forecasts indicate on-going risks of flooding in the Bella Coola Valley, Owikeeno/Wannock River and Kingcome River into Thursday. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
