River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior, Central Interior, Boundary, South-East BC ISSUED: May 3, 2017 12:00 PM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior, Central Interior and South-East BC including: South Interior including Mission Creek and small streams and rivers around Princeton, Tulameen, Penticton, Osoyoos, Kelowna, Vernon, Kamloops, Salmon Arm and surrounding areas Central Interior including the Bonaparte River and small streams around Merritt, Cache Creek, Clinton and surrounding areas Boundary including the Kettle River, Granby River and small streams and rivers around Grand Forks and surrounding areas South-East BC including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas A significant transition in weather is happening the Interior of British Columbia through this week as a high pressure system is expected to intensify, bringing seasonally hot temperatures to the region. Day time high temperatures are expected to reach mid-to-upper twenties by Thursday. On Friday, an upper trough is expected to shift into the Interior, bringing showers and rain. The onset of hot weather will deliver the first significant episode of snow melt from this season’s snow pack. At higher elevations, snow melt is expected to be modest; however mid-elevation melt is expected to be significant with these temperatures. Extremely wet weather has led to soil saturation and increased snow accumulation throughout southern BC over the past month, and will likely exacerbate streamflow response. Small creeks and river systems are expected to rise significantly in response to this snow melt and rainfall, with high flows through the Thursday to Saturday period. Mid-elevation areas (1000-1500m) area expected to see the highest rates of snowmelt and greatest streamflow response, and specific areas of concern have been noted above. Larger river systems, including Similkameen River, North Thompson River, South Thompson River, Slocan River and Fraser River are not expected to reach levels of concern at this time. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
