Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

UPDATE: Flood Warning: Elk River (new)
High Streamflow Advisory: Interior (revised)
Issued: 21 June 2013 10:15 AM

As of 10:00 AM Friday June 21, the following advisories are in effect:
     •   Elk River (at Fernie) – Flood Warning (UPGRADED)
     •   Upper Columbia (Kicking Horse River) ‐ High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED)
     •   West and East Kootenay– High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)
     •   Upper Columbia (small tributary rivers) – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)
     •   Lower Columbia (small tributary rivers) – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)
     •   Okanagan (including Mission Creek) ‐ ENDED
     •   Boundary (including Kettle River and Granby River) ‐ ENDED
     •   Thompson Region (including the North Thompson, Salmon River, Shuswap River, Eagle
         River and surrounding areas) ‐ ENDED


The Elk River has continued to rise from heavy rain over the past 2 days. Current river level at
the Elk River at Fernie Water Survey Gauge (WSC 08NK002) is at 4.53m, and rising at up to 10
cm/hour. The Elk River is expected to peak by mid‐day or early afternoon today, with an
additional 20‐40 cm of rise possible. Current river level is approximately 20 cm above the flood
of record (1995) at the Water Survey gauge.
On the Kicking Horse River, the majority of the rain from Wednesday has now passed, however
rainfall over the past day (approximately 10‐20mm) is still working its way down the river, and
additional rises are possible through Friday.
Elsewhere, river levels have peaked, and are beginning to recede now that rainfall rates have
eased. River levels remain high in the Columbia, West Kootenay and East Kootenay. With drier
weather into the weekend, river conditions are expected to continue to improve.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
required.

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
