River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – South Peace Region, Bulkley-Skeena (UPGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – Nass River, Iskut River (NEW) ISSUED: June 9, 2017 9:45 AM The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: South Peace Region and surrounding areas including Pine Pass and tributaries around Tumbler Ridge, Chetwynd, and Mackenzie Skeena River and tributaries, including the Bulkley River The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Nass River, Iskut River and tributaries around Kispiox, Meziadin Junction and Bob Quinn Lake Heavy rain has been falling across the region since Thursday afternoon. Rainfall totals observed so far have been in the 15-45 mm range through the Skeena, Bulkley and Northwest BC, and 15-60 mm through the Peace, Williston, and Mackenzie region. Environment Canada is forecasting additional rainfall amounts of 15-25mm through Friday. Rivers throughout the region are expected to respond to this rainfall through Friday, with peak flows expected over the Friday to Saturday period. Rivers and tributaries around Pine Pass, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Mackenzie, Williston Lake, Houston, Smithers, Hazelton and Kispiox are at most risk of reaching flood level. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
