River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory: South Interior ISSUED: April 20 2016 11:00 AM The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior including: Okanagan – small tributary river systems in the Vernon, Kelowna and Penticton and surrounding areas, including Mission Creek Similkameen River and tributaries Boundary Region including the Kettle and West Kettle Rivers South Thompson including the Salmon River and other small tributary systems Thompson region including the Nicola River upstream of Nicola Lake and small tributary rivers in the Merritt and surrounding areas An unseasonably strong high pressure ridge has brought record hot temperatures across much of British Columbia this week. Daily high temperatures have reached the mid- to upper-twenties through the South Interior on Monday and Tuesday. Temperatures have been 10 degrees or more above normal for this time of year. Hot temperatures have led to the transition into snowmelt for high elevation snow packs. Snowmelt rates have been increasing over the past several days with daily melt rates in the 15 mm to 25 mm range. Streams have been responding to this rapid snowmelt, with many smaller streams in the South Interior seeing a 50% to 100% increase in flow over the past 3 days. Flows in many smaller rivers are near or above record levels for this time of year, and are approaching or at 2-year return period flows. Hot weather is expected to persist through Wednesday and Thursday in the South Interior, before temperatures subside into the weekend. Snow melt rates are expected to remain high through Thursday, with ongoing rises in river levels expected through Friday. The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers during high streamflow events due to quickly flowing water and potentially unstable riverbanks. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
