River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Salmon River High Streamflow Advisory –South Interior, South-East BC UPDATED: May 8, 2017 9:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Salmon River The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Shuswap Region including tributary streams Boundary including the Granby River and small streams and rivers around Grand Forks and surrounding areas South-East BC including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas After significant snowmelt and thundershowers over the past few days, the region experienced a drying trend on Saturday and Sunday. In general, flows have been receding throughout the region. On the Salmon River, flows are easing slowly, with current flows of 47 m3/s (5-year flow) at the Water Survey of Canada gauge near Salmon Arm (08LE021). Flows throughout the region are expected to remain stable through the early part of the week. Current long-range forecasts indicate the potential for additional rainfall throughout the BC Interior later this week, and a re-emergence of high flow conditions is likely; advisories will be re-issued if required. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
