Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories South-East Region: High Streamflow – Boundary, West Kootenay, East Kootenay, Upper Columbia ISSUED: 11:30 AM June 5, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Boundary Region including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and tributaries West Kootenay including the Slocan River, Salmo River and surrounding tributaries East Kootenay including the Moyie River and surrounding tributaries Upper Columbia Region River levels have generally eased across the region this week, compared to the high flows experienced earlier this week and last weekend. Most rivers in the region are now at or below the 2-year to 5-year return period flow levels. Unsettled weather is expected to continue into the weekend, with the potential for more organized rainfall on Sunday and into Monday. Rivers are expected to experience rises late-weekend and into early next week in response to this rainfall. At this time, forecasts are not indicating that rivers will reach levels that were experienced earlier in the week. Flows in the 2-year to 5-year range are possible. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
