River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories UDPATE - High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River ISSUED: June 6, 2017 11:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Fraser River including areas of the main stem river from the Fraser Canyon downstream to the ocean Flows on the Fraser River reached highs over the weekend, with flows at the Water Survey of Canada gauge Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) peaking at 9,800 m3/s, and water levels at the Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) reaching 5.65 m. Upstream tributary flows have been receding, and river levels on the Fraser River downstream through Hope and the Fraser Valley to the ocean are expected to ease through this week. Flows at Hope are forecast to drop to approximately 8,000 m3/s by late this week or into the weekend. Weather later this week is expected to transition in the BC Interior, with high pressure and warm temperatures early in the week being replaced by a large upper low pressure system by Wednesday-Thursday of this week, ushering in a steadier period of showers and rain. Runoff from this rainfall will lead to rises in tributary flows on the Fraser River, and another period of rising flows is expected through the Fraser Valley early next week. Current forecasting is indicating the potential for flows in the 9,000-10,000 m3/s range at Hope, and water levels at Mission of approximately 6.1m over the Tuesday to Thursday period next week (June 13-15). There is still some uncertainty over the amount of rain that will fall within the Upper Fraser River basin (e.g. upstream of Prince George) and the Thompson River system; flows along the lower Fraser River may be above or below the current forecasted levels depending on how much rain occurs. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor river levels and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
