Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Maintained: Northeast Region: High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River Updated: 11:58 July 24, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for: The Quesnel River The Quesnel River has responded to the thunderstorms yesterday and this morning, which have slowed down the dropping trend in the flow. The QUESNEL RIVER NEAR QUESNEL (08KH006) is currently flowing at a flow slightly above the 5-year return period level and the QUESNEL RIVER AT LIKELY (08KH001) is running at a flow slightly over the 10-year return period. Based on the latest hydrological modeling, the flows are expected to be stable at these levels for the weekend and then drop further next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-river-level period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
