Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Central Coast (UPGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 11:15 AM October 27, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River, Owikeeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding areas A slow-moving frontal system is expected to sweep across northern and central coastal regions through the early part of the week. The system is expected to stall over the Central Coast, bringing two waves of precipitation; the first wave is underway and expected to bring heavy rain throughout Tuesday and following a brief reprieve on Wednesday morning, a second phase of rainfall is expected to deliver additional rainfall late-Wednesday and through Thursday. Precipitation for Wednesday is forecast to be in the 60-100 mm range, with the heaviest rainfall focused on the outer coast regions of the Central Coast (e.g. Ocean Falls, Bella Bella). Similar rainfall amounts are expected during the second phase of the event late-Wednesday to Thursday. Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued a Rainfall Warning for the region, with the potential for areas within the region to exceed 250 mm of total rainfall for this event by late-Thursday. With some snow on the ground at low-to-mid elevations, this is expected to melt and provide additional runoff (10 to 30 mm) to rivers. Freezing levels are expected to be in the 2000-2500m range Tuesday and Wednesday and dip down to 1500m by Friday. Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Tuesday, with smaller rivers reaching peak levels late-Tuesday or overnight, and overnight and early Wednesday for larger rivers, including the Bella Coola River, Owikeeno and Kingcome. Rivers may experience a small reprieve on Wednesday, with another surge in river rises coming with the second wave of precipitation later Wednesday and into Thursday. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
