Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River (ENDED) ISSUED: 14:00 PM July 13th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Lower Fraser River (from Hope downstream) Flows along the Lower Fraser River (from Hope to the ocean) continue to recede after peaking at nearly 10-year return period flows late July 6th; this was after heavy rain fell throughout the watershed on July 1st. Current forecast indicate continued recession, and that potential peaks due to continued unsettled weather will remain far below the July 6th peak. Most recent observations are: Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is flowing at 8300 m3/s (below a 2-year return period) Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) is at 4.8 m and falling/li> The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
