Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Cowichan River (DOWNGRADED), Somass River ENDED – Flood Warning – Southern Vancouver Island (other areas) ENDED – Flood Watch – Eastern Vancouver Island ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Western and Central Vancouver Island (other areas) ISSUED: January 30, 2018 09:45 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing the current advisories and warnings as of 9:45AM, Tuesday January 30th: High Streamflow Advisory – Cowichan River (DOWNGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – Somass River (MAINTAINED) ENDED - Flood Warning - Southern Vancouver Island including the Chemainus River, Koksilah River and surrounding areas except the Cowichan River (see above) ENDED - Flood Watch - Eastern Vancouver Island including the Englishman and Bowser, Parksville, Qualicum, Nanaimo and surrounding areas ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory - Eastern Vancouver Island including Tsolum River, Oyster River and tributaries around Campbell River, Courtenay, and Comox ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory - Central Vancouver Island except the Somass River (see above) ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory - Western Vancouver Island including areas around Tofino and tributaries around Sutton Pass and surrounding areas Heavy rain has impacted rivers on Vancouver Island over the past several days. River levels have now peaked and have been easing since Monday. In larger rivers with lake-influence, including the Somass River and Cowichan River, flows remain elevated and are expected to slowly recede through Tuesday and Wednesday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level of advisory. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level of advisory. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level of advisory.. Links: River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
