Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Bulkley River (UPGRADED) Flood Watch – Nautley River (UPGRADED), Nechako River (UPGRADED), Dean River, Nazko – West Road River High Streamflow Advisory – Prince George Area ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory - Peace ISSUED: 1215h May 10th, 2018 The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories in the North-East and North-West regions are UPGRADED or MAINTAINED as of Thursday 1145hr: Flood Warning – Bulkley River (UPGRADED) including tributaries around Houston, Smithers and adjacent areas Flood Watch – Nautley River and Nechako River including tributaries and lake levels around Burns Lake, Francois Lake, Vanderhoof and surrounding areas Flood Watch – Dean River Flood Watch – Nazko and West Road River High Streamflow Advisory – Prince George area including the Chilako River, Salmon River and surrounding tributaries The following Highstreamflow Advisory is ENDED: High Streamflow Advisory – Peace A summary of key rivers includes: Bulkley River near Houston (08EE003) is flowing at 270 m3/s (20-year flow) and rising. Continued rises are expected on Thursday and Friday up to 300-350 m3/s Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) is flowing at 1250 m3/s (20-year flow) and a gauge height of approximately 5.5m. The rate of rise has been easing and additional rises in the 5-10 cm range at the gauge are expected into the middle of Thursday. Warming weather into the weekend may lead to additional rises Nautley River near Fort Fraser (08JB003) is flowing at 215 m3/s (approaching a 20-year flow) and rising. Modelling is indicating the potential for on-going rises over the weekend, with the potential to reach 300 m3/s early next week, and further rises next week with a warming weather trend Nechako River near Vanderhoof (08JC001) is currently flowing at 513 m3/s (5-year flow), with rises to the 530 m3/s range expected over the weekend Temperatures are generally expected to rise over the weekend and into next week, and increased snow melt is expected over this period. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
