Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Boundary High Streamflow Advisory – Kootenay UPDATED: 1000h May 10th, 2018 The following Flood Warnings, Watches and Advisories in the South-East region are MAINTAINED as of Thursday 1000hr: Flood Warning – Boundary , including the Kettle River, West Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries High Streamflow Advisory – West Kootenay, East Kootenay Rainfall on Wednesday has led to rapidly rising river levels throughout the region. A summary of key rivers includes: Kettle River near Westbridge (08NN026) is flowing at 420 m3/s (50-year flow) and rising. Additional rises are expected through Thursday and peaking later on Thursday. Additional rises of 10-30 cm are possible at the gauge location. Granby River at Grand Forks (08NN002) is flowing at approximately 465 m3/s (100-year flow) and rising. Additional rises of 10-30 cm are possible at the gauge location through the day on Thursday, with peak level expected Thursday afternoon or evening. West Kettle River at Westbridge (08NN003) is flowing at approximately 295 m3/s (200-year flow) and rising. Additional rises of 5-20 cm are possible at the gauge location through the day on Thursday, with peak level expected Thursday afternoon or evening. Kettle River near Ferry (FRYW1), a USGS hydrometric gauge in Washington State, is approximately 5 inches above the flood of record from 1948. Smaller river systems have reached their peak levels from this rainfall event. Current weather forecast through the region today and tomorrow may be unsettled, but no significant rainfall or warming (ie rapid snowmelt) is expected. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
