River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Salmon River (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – Central Interior, South Interior, South-East BC (NEW) UPDATED: May 10, 2017 11:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Salmon River The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Central Interior and Thompson Region including the Coldwater River, Nicola River, Bonaparte River and small streams and rivers around Cache Creek, Merritt, Kamloops and surrounding areas Shuswap Region including small streams and rivers around Salmon Arm, Enderby, Sicamous and surrounding areas Okanagan including Mission Creek, small streams and rivers around Vernon, Lumby, Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas Similkameen including the Tulameen and Similkameen Rivers Boundary including the Kettle River, Granby River and small streams and rivers around Rock Creek, Greenwood, Grand Forks and surrounding areas West Kootenay including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo and surrounding areas East Kootenay including small streams and rivers around Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas Columbia including small streams and rivers around Revelstoke, Golden and surrounding areas With dry conditions over the past few days, river levels throughout the region have shown improvement from flood conditions last weekend. Temperatures across southern BC are expected to warm on Wednesday and into Thursday, with forecasted temperatures reaching the low to mid-twenties. This will lead to a gradual increase in snow melt at higher elevations. Late-Thursday and into Friday, a cold front is expected to pass through the region, brining rain and the potential for thundershowers and periods of increased intensity rainfall. Environment Canada has issued a special weather statement for the region indicating the potential risk of rain and thundershowers. This current weather pattern is very similar to the one last week that resulted in significant flooding throughout the region. Similar conditions, or potentially more severe conditions, are possible later this week and weekend. Rivers are expected to start rising in response to rain late-Thursday, with high flows on Friday and into Saturday, or later in rivers with longer response times. There is some uncertainty in the upcoming forecast. While the region is forecasted to receive rainfall, localized areas with increased intensity are possible. Forecasted temperatures on Wednesday-Thursday are not as high as were observed last week, and in some areas, mid-elevation snow has been depleted. High elevation snowpacks are riper than last week, and are contributing more melt runoff to rivers fed by high elevation terrain. Saturated soils are present throughout the region due to persistent wet weather over the past two months, and this is expected to continue to exacerbate flow conditions. As a result, some regions may not experience the same degree of high flows as last weekend, while other areas may experience a greater response. At the moment, the areas with a greater likelihood flood conditions include streams and rivers in the Thompson-Nicola, Okanagan, Shuswap, and Boundary regions. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
