Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – Flood Warning – Upper Fraser River, Quesnel River– Flood Watch – Peace (UPGRADED), Northeast (UPGRADED), Middle Fraser (UPGRADED), Chilcotin River, Fraser River mainstem to Boston Bar ISSUED: 3:15PM July 2, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for: Upper Fraser River including tributaries and the mainstem at Prince George and upstream Quesnel River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Peace Region (UPGRADED) Northeast (UPGRADED) Middle Fraser (UPGRADED) including tributaries including areas around Williams Lake and 100 Mile House Chilcotin River and tributaries, including Big Creek, Chilko River Fraser River mainstem from Prince George to Boston Bar Significant rainfall has fallen over the past 48 hours across the BC Interior and North-east. Rainfall amounts over the past two days have been in the 30-80 mm range in the Peace and North-east, 25-35 mm in the Upper Fraser, 25-65 mm in the Cariboo Mountains and 30-50 mm in the Chilcotin. Additional rainfall is expected through today and into Friday, with further unsettled weather in the long-term forecast. River levels are rising rapidly in headwater areas and are expected to see continued rapid rise through the day, with larger rivers rising into tomorrow or into the weekend. Given the rainfall observed (and minor contribution of further rain forecast), significant rises in river levels are expected, with risks of flooding in many areas. Most recent observations are: Kiskatinaw River below Borden Creek (07FD019) is running at 50 m3/s (2-5 year flow) Fraser River at Shelley (08KB001) is running at 2840 m3/s (1-2 year flow) Bowron River below Box Canyon (08KD007) is running at 496 m3/s (5-10 year flow) Quesnel River at Quesnel (08KH006) is running at 1020 m3/s (10 year flow) Chilcotin River near Hanceville (08MB012) is running at 288 m3/s (2-5 year flow) The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
