Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – Flood Watch – Upper Fraser (NEW), Quesnel River (MAINTAINED) - High Streamflow Advisory –Middle Fraser (MAINTAINED), Fraser River mainstem (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 10:00 July 16, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Upper Fraser River, including tributaries like the McGregor River, Dore River and McKale River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Quesnel River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Fraser River mainstem from Marguerite to Boston Bar Middle Fraser tributaries including areas around Williams Lake and 100 Mile House A moderate rainfall event is occurring over the Upper Fraser and Cariboo regions. As of Thursday morning, rainfall totals over the past 24-hours range from 5 to 35mm – the highest occurring at Hedrick Lake (1A14P) automated snow weather station. Since rivers have remained high due to heavy rain over the past three weeks, some tributaries of the Fraser River are rising rapidly from this rainfall event. The Dore River near McBride is flowing at 109 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) and rising. The McKale River near 940m Contour (08KA009) is at flowing at 73 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) and rising. The Morkill River below Hellroaring Creek (08KA013) is flowing at 240 m3/s (between 1-year and 2-year flow) and rising. The McGregor River is flowing at 982 m3/s (between 1-year and 2-year) and rising rapidly. Increases are expected in the Fraser River over the upcoming days due to the rainfall. The Quesnel River remains very high and is flowing at 985 m3/s (10-year flow) and may rise again over the following days due to the current rainfall. The Fraser River near Marguerite is flowing at 4360 m3/s (between 1-year and 2-year flow). The San Jose River is flowing at 18.4 m3/s (between 20-year and 50-year flow). Fortunately, dry conditions are expected for the weekend. The following week may continue the recent trend of unsettled summer weather. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
