Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Central Coast (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 1:45 PM October 29, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River, Owikeeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas A series of rainfall events are impacting the Central Coast. Rainfall totals since Tuesday have been in the 75-175mm range throughout the region. A lull in rainfall rates overnight has led to some easing of river rises, particularly in smaller tributary rivers, however larger rivers, including the Bella Coola River, Wannock River and Owikeeno Lake and Kingcome River, remain high. Additional moderate rainfall is expected through Thursday and into Friday, with an additional 20-50 mm or more of precipitation being forecasted. Rivers are expected to remain high as this additional rain falls and works through the river systems. Rises in rivers above current levels is possible on the Bella Coola River and Kingcome River, and likely to occur on Owikeeno Lake and the Wannock River. Once rainfall has eased on Friday, river conditions are expected to stabilize into the weekend. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
