Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region - High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – North Thompson Tributaries, North Okanagan, Upper Nicola River, Salmon River (Salmon Arm) ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – Bonaparte/Cache Creek ISSUED: 12:45 PM May 11, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River around Clearwater and Barriere Upper Nicola River above Nicola Lake North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby and Winfield Salmon River near Salmon Arm The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cache Creek and Bonaparte River and surrounding areas Snowmelt runoff has been contributing to rising flows in most areas over the past week or two. With warm temperatures over the weekend, river levels in the region have remained elevated. Current reported river conditions as of 7:00AM Monday May 11th include: Fishtrap Creek near McLure (08LB024) is flowing at 8 m3/s (between a 2-year 5-year flow) and holding steady Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (08LF002) is flowing at 55 m3/s (10-year to 20-year flow) and has is easing levels Salmon River at Falkland (08LE020) is flowing at 31 m3/s (5-year flow) with rises experienced over the weekend Nicola River at Outlet of Douglas Lake (08LG028) is flowing at 41.5 m3/s, and has risen over the past day, but remains below previous high levels last week Coldstream Creek above Municipal Intake (08NM142) is flowing at 3.5 m3/s (5-year flow) Bessette Creek above Beaverjack Creek (08LC039) is flowing at 25.5 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow) and has remained high over the weekend Unsettled weather through this week, and on-going snowmelt are expected to keep river levels high. Additional rises in river levels are possible this week throughout the region. While flows on the Bonaparte River remain high, levels are expected to continue to decline. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
