River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast ISSUED: January 16, 2017 12:00 PM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast including: Howe Sound including the Squamish River, Stawamus River and surrounding creeks and tributaries Sunshine Coast including streams around Gibsons, Sechelt and surrounding areas North Shore Mountains including the Seymour River and surrounding creeks and tributaries Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding creeks and tributaries A transition in weather is happening across coastal British Columbia as cold Arctic air is being pushed out by warm, moist air from the Pacific. Heavy rainfall is expected over the next few days, with total rainfall amounts from Monday through Wednesday forecasted to reach upwards of 200 mm. In addition to runoff from precipitation, temperatures are expected to rise, with freezing levels reaching up to mountain-top level or above. Melt of low-to-mid elevation snow is expected over the next few days, adding additional runoff to rivers. High streamflow is expected on rivers throughout the region, with the highest flows expected Tuesday into Wednesday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
