Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River (NEW), Horsefly River (NEW), Cariboo (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 3:30 PM May 28, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Quesnel River (NEW) Horsefly River (NEW) Cariboo and including tributary rivers and streams near Williams Lake and Quesnel areas east, including the San Jose River, Bridge Creek Flows remain high in some regions, particularly on the San Jose River and areas to the east of Williams Lake, Quesnel and 100 Mile House including Bridge Creek, areas around Horsefly, and and watersheds draining from the western edge of the Cariboo Mountains. In the San Jose River and Bridge Creek, flows remain extremely high relative to historic flows, and are slowly easing. In the mountains, snow packs have been steadily melting, leading to on-going rises in flows on the Quesnel River and Horsefly River, and tributaries. A high-pressure system is building, and temperatures are expected to rise into Saturday, with temperatures in valley bottom locations reaching up to the mid-to-upper 20 degree range. In the Cariboo Mountains, significant snowpack is still present and accelerated snowmelt is expected into the weekend. Following this hot spell, weather is expected to transition to a low pressure trough and cold front. This brings the potential for thundershowers ahead of the trough on Saturday evening, transitioning to more organized rainfall overnight Saturday and into Sunday. Exact amounts of rainfall and locations of highest rainfall amounts is still uncertain, however current weather modelling is indicating the potential for moderate to high rainfall amounts (5-20+mm) Flows on Quesnel and Horsefly River are expected to see on-going rises throughout the weekend and into next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
