Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Boundary, West Kootenay, East Kootenay - Issued: 6:45 PM April 9, 2023 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for areas in the South Interior including: Boundary Region, including Grand Forks West Kootenay, including tributaries into Arrow Lakes, Slocan Lake and Kootenay Lake East Kootenay, including the Elk Valley near Fernie Weather Synopsis: A frontal system is approaching the South Interior this evening (April 9). It’s expected to stall over the Kootenay region on Monday (April 10) and bring basin-wide, prolonged rainfall until Tuesday morning (April 11). Rainfall amounts are forecast to reach 30 to 50 mm across the regions. Freezing levels are expected to rise between 2,000 to 2,500 metres. River Conditions: Seasonal to below seasonal temperatures and dry conditions have persisted through late winter and early spring. River flows in the Kootenay region are currently below normal as the freshet snowmelt season has yet to significantly begin. The upcoming heavy rainfall is expected to cause flashy rises in creeks and rivers in the region. Smaller, low elevation creeks with remaining snowpack are most at risk. These rain-on-snow events have a high amount of uncertainty based on rainfall totals, ripeness of the snowpack to melt and the fluctuation of the freezing level. Conditions are expected to be dynamic throughout the weekend with periods of rapid river rises. Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC . BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests: Tel: 778-698-8453 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
