Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – B.C. Interior Issued: 2:15 PM April 26, 2023 The RIver Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the B.C. Interior including: Upper Fraser including plateau areas around Prince George (including Chilako River, Chuchinka River, Salmon River and surrounding areas) Middle Fraser including plateau areas around Quesnel and Williams Lake (including Nazko River, West Road River, Baker Creek, Cottonwood River, San Jose River and surrounding areas) South Interior including Lower Thompson, Salmon River and Okanagan (including Cache Creek and surrounding areas) Weather Synopsis: A strong upper ridge is forecast to build across B.C. on Thursday and into the weekend. Temperatures are expected to rise to well above normal (+10°C above normal), with temperatures by Saturday reaching up to 23°C in northern areas (Prince George) and 27°C in the Okanagan (Kelowna). Temperatures are forecast to remain high on Sunday, and ease slightly into next week. A low-pressure trough may bring precipitation to the region next week. River Conditions: In most of the higher elevation terrain across the province, the snowpack has not ripened and much of the energy associated with the upcoming warming is expected to be absorbed into snow ripening. At mid-elevations (approximately 900-1500m) snowpacks have ripened and are expected to respond with sharp rises in snowmelt rates over the weekend. River responses will be variable across the region, with watersheds containing a high degree of mid-elevation terrain expected to have the most significant increase in river levels over the weekend. This includes rivers such as the Salmon River (near Prince George), Chuchinka River, Chilako River, Cottonwood River, Baker Creek, Nazko River, West Road (Blackwater) River, San Jose River, Bridge Creek, Cache Creek, Bonaparte River, Guichon Creek, Salmon River (near Falkland and Salmon Arm), Whiteman Creek, Inkaneep Creek, and similar creeks and rivers across the region. Extremely high flows, including potential flooding, is possible over the weekend in these areas. The public is advised: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-flowing bodies of water is dangerous: Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high streamflow rivers or streams Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of drowning During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests: Tel: 778-698-8453 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
