River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories UPDATE - High Streamflow Advisory: South Coast ISSUED: February 16, 2017 3:30PM The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Chilliwack River and tributaries The BC River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast including: Howe Sound, including the Stawamus River and surrounding creeks North Shore, including the Seymour River, Coquitlam River and surrounding creeks Fraser Valley and surrounding creeks except the Chilliwack River Sunshine Coast, including creeks in the Gibsons and Sechelt areas A strong Pacific storm system has passed over south-west British Columbia over the past 2 days. Total rainfall amounts since Monday have ranged from 50-120 mm throughout the South Coast, with additional snow melt at lower elevations. Precipitation has eased since early Thursday morning. River flows on Chilliwack River at Vedder Crossing (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MH001) are approximately 410 m3/s, with small rises possible through the afternoon and early evening. Flow are expected to remain below 450 m3/s, and flows are expected to recede later on Thursday evening and through Friday. Levels on other river systems in the area have passed peak levels, and are expected to decline through the rest of Thursday. The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers and riversides during the high streamflow period because the quickly flowing water and the adjacent riverbanks are potentially unsafe. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor weather and streamflow and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
