Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island ISSUED: 11:30 AM January 2, 2019 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast and Vancouver Island including: Howe Sound – including the Stawamus River and tributaries along the Sea-to-Sky Highway Sunshine Coast – including watersheds around Gibsons and Sechelt North Shore – including the Seymour River and watersheds around North Vancouver and West Vancouver Fraser Valley – including the Chilliwack River, and mountainous tributaries on the north side of the Fraser Valley West Vancouver Island – including tributaries around Tofino, Bamfield, Port Renfrew and surrounding areas An intense Pacific frontal system is expected to stall over south-west British Columbia Wednesday afternoon through Thursday, bringing heavy rainfall across the region. Rainfall amounts are expected to be the heaviest for West Vancouver Island, with storm precipitation totals by Thursday afternoon potentially exceeding 150 mm. In other areas, rainfall amounts in the 100 mm range, or higher, are possible. Streamflow is expected to rise in response to these storms, with high flows expected later on Wednesday and through Thursday, and into Friday for some river systems. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
