Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – Flood Warning – Upper Fraser River, Quesnel River– Flood Watch – Peace, Northeast, Middle Fraser, Fraser River mainstem to Boston Bar, Middle Fraser; Flood Watch –Chilcotin (ENDED) ISSUED: 10:30AM July 5, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for: Upper Fraser River including tributaries and the mainstem at Prince George and upstream Quesnel River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Peace Region Northeast Middle Fraser including tributaries including areas around Williams Lake and 100 Mile House Fraser River mainstem from Prince George to Boston Bar The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watch for: Chilcotin River and tributaries, including Big Creek, Chilko River Runoff from heavy rainfall earlier in the week is working its way through rivers across the region. Heaviest rainfall amounts were observed in the Peace Region and north-eastern BC, with moderately heavy amounts being observed in the Fraser headwaters and Cariboo Mountains. Most recent observations are: Kiskatinaw River near Farmington (07FD001) is running at approximately 400 m3/s (10-year flow) and slowly receding Muskwa River near Fort Nelson (10CD001) reached peak flows of approximately 4000 m3/s yesterday (20-year flow) and flows are now receding Fraser River at South Fort George (08KE018) is at peak levels at 9.55m gauge height (approximately 10-year flow) and is expected to begin receding through Sunday Bowron River below Box Canyon (08KD007) is flowing at 550 m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow) and dropping Quesnel River at Quesnel (08KH006) is flowing at 1110 m3/s (between a 20-year and 50-year flow) and is peaking San Jose River above Boreland Creek (08MC040) is flowing at 25 m3/s (50-year flow) and dropping Peak flows have occurred in most areas now. While flows are receding in most areas now, flow rates remain high and there may be on-going flood impacts in areas adjacent to rivers. Weather is expected to be more stable for the coming days, and conditions are expected to continue to improve. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
