Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Nazko River (Maintained) - Flood Watch – San Jose River (Maintained) - High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo & Prince George (Maintained) - Updated: 2:30 PM April 20, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for: The Nazko River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: The San Jose River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cariboo Region, including Baker Creek, Bridge Creek, West Road River and tributaries around Williams Lake, Quesnel and Prince George Temperatures in the Cariboo region have cooled since Sunday and rates of snowmelt have decreased. Flows in the rivers have reached, or are nearing, their peak from last week's hot weather. The Nazko River is still gradually rising based on observations. Unfortunately, the Nazko River above Michelle Creek (08KF001) is an inactive station; based on the CLEVER model it is flowing at approximately 42 m3/s (2-year flow). The San Jose River above Borland Creek (08MC040) is flowing at 19.5 m3/s, which is a 10-year flow, and still rising. Bridge Creek below Deka Creek (08LA027) is flowing at 8.5 m3/s (between 2-year and 5-year flow) and receding slightly. It's still too early to know if the recession at Bridge Creek is a natural recession based on diurnal snowmelt or if flows will continue to drop through the week. Other creeks and rivers in the region have remained at 2-year flows or lower. The CLEVER model has additional rises in the San Jose River and Bridge Creek as a possibility for the upcoming week. These forecast increases could be related to the delayed response of the recent snowmelt in upstream lakes of these watersheds, continued snowmelt in the forecast period and the possibility of precipitation. With flows relatively high throughout the Cariboo region, rivers and creeks are vulnerable if moderate to heavy rainfall occurs. Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page ( http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html ) for details. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
