Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island ISSUED: January 26, 2018 09:00 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing the High Streamflow Advisories for: Central Vancouver Island including Sproat River, Somass River and tributaries and areas around Port Alberni Eastern Vancouver Island including the Englishman River, Tsolum River, Oyster River and tributaries around Campbell River, Comox, Parksville and surrounding areas Southern Vancouver Island including the Chemainus River, Cowichan River, Koksilah River and surrounding areas An atmospheric river storm event is expected to impact Vancouver Island on Sunday and early Monday. Heavy rainfall is expected with the forecast ranging from 50-160mm. Higher amounts are expected where upslope conditions occur, and slightly lower amounts along the eastern slopes of Vancouver Island. Temperatures are forecast to increase, and freezing levels will rise to 2000m. Snowmelt from mid-elevation may add to runoff for this event. River levels are expected to rise through Sunday, with peak levels expected on Monday and potentially into Tuesday. Rivers flowing out of lakes are particularly susceptible due to the slow recession from last weekend’s storm event; these include the Somass River and the Cowichan River. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level of advisory. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level of advisory. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level of advisory.. Links: River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
