Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Chilcotin River Upgraded: 4:30 PM July 8, 2019 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading the Flood Watch to a Flood Warning for the Chilcotin River including: The CHILCOTIN RIVER BELOW BIG CREEK (08MB005) Tributaries of the Chilcotin River A rainfall system has moved over the Chilcotin region on the weekend and about 90 mm rainfall has been observed for the past four days. Responding to this amount of rainfall, the Chilcotin River has risen. After a data correction (estimation) by the Water Survey of Canada (WSC) , the CHILCOTIN RIVER BELOW BIG CREEK (08MB005) is currently recording a flow of 1010 m3/s, which is a flow over the 200-year return period. According to Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC), thunderstorms with a rainfall amount from 10 to 15 mm are expected for the Chilcotin region today. The CLEVER Model updated this afternoon indicates that the river level is expected to continue to rise slightly today and the flow is expected to peak tonight or tomorrow morning. The public is advised to stay clear of the rapid flow in the rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor the conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
