Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region: High Streamflow Advisory – Liard River & Muskwa River ISSUED: 12:00PM August 21, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: The Liard River (and tributaries) The Muskwa River (and tributaries) A significant low-pressure system is approaching northeast B.C. Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued a Rainfall Warning for the Fort Nelson and Muncho Lake Park regions. They are forecasting rainfall amounts of 40 to 75 for tonight through Saturday with the higher amounts expected near the eastern slopes of the Rockies. The River Forecast Centre's CLEVER model is forecasting the possibility of flows reaching above 5-year return period levels in the region, including the Liard River, Muskwa River and tributaries. Smaller watersheds are expected to peak late Saturday or Sunday, whereas larger systems will likely reach peak flows early next week. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
