Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Nazko – West Road River (UPGRADED) Flood Watch – Central Interior (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – BC Interior (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 11:15 AM April 29, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for: Nazko River and West Road River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Central Interior including the Bonaparte River, and tributary rivers around Cache Creek, Merritt, Williams Lake, Quesnel and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: South Interior Boundary Kootenay Peace Temperatures cooled on Saturday after seasonally hot temperatures last Wednesday to Friday. Snow melt rates remained elevated at most automated snow weather stations on Saturday, with snow melt rates in the 5-10 mm/day range in high elevation locations, and 10-30 mm/day at mid-elevation sites. Snowmelt rates are expected to ease Sunday and the first part of next week. High streamflow is being observed in many river systems fed by low-to-mid elevation terrain. These areas include: Okanagan - including tributaries in the Oliver, Osoyoos, Summerland, Penticton, Kelowna, Vernon and surrounding areas Similkameen - including the Tulameen and tributaries Boundary - including the West Kettle River, Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries Kootenay - including the Moyie River and mid-elevation tributaries in the Castlegar, Trail, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas Peace – including tributary rivers draining plateau areas around Fort St. John, Dawson Creek and surrounding areas In the Central Interior (Cariboo), very high flows are being observed. At the West Road River near Cinema (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08KG001), flows are estimated to be 430 m3/s (50-year flow) and rising. On the Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (WSC 08LF002), flows are estimated to be 30-35 m3/s (approximately a 5-year flow), with levels easing slightly since Saturday. Modelling is indicating the potential for flows to increase on Sunday and into Monday. Warming temperatures are forecast for later next week, and may lead to another period of increased snow melt. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
