Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Kingcome River ISSUED: 1:45 PM October 09, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Kingcome River A series coastal storms are moving over the south and central coasts of British Columbia. Rainfall amounts since Thursday noon have been in the 65-120mm range through the region, which has caused rapid rise in the Kingcome River. The Water Survey of Canada gauge Kingcome River below Atlazi River (08GF009) is recoding a water level of 7.8 m, which is a level between the 5- and 10-year return periods. The current hydrologic modeling indicates that further rise of the river level this afternoon into the weekend is expected. Additional rainfall amounts in the 80-140 mm range are possible by late-Saturday. Water levels at the WSC gauge are expected to be within a similar range as was experienced in late-September of this year (approximately 8.5m gauge height) The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
