River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Bulletins/Reports - Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories --> Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories FLOOD WATCH: Nechako River UPDATED: 27 May 2015 5:00 PM The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Nautley River near Fort Fraser Nechako River at Vanderhoof The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for: Nechako River at Isle Pierre and downstream to the confluence with the Fraser River The Nautley River near Fort Fraser (08JB003) is currently estimated to be flowing at 240 m 3 /s (estimated gauge height of 2.81 m) and has been steady since Monday. The Stellako River at Glenannan (08JB002) is flowing at 168 m 3 /s and gauge water level is 3.28 m and has dropped slightly since Monday. Discharge from the Nechako Reservoir was set to 500 m 3 /s yesterday with Skins Lake Spillway being managed to target a flow between 650 to 700 m 3 /s at Vanderhoof. The Nechako River at Vanderhoof (08JC001) is flowing at 588 m 3 /s (gauge water level is 5.0 m) and has been steady over the past two days. The Stuart River near Fort St. James (08JE001) is currently at 310 m 3 /s (gauge water level is 2.71 m) and has been increasing approximately 6 m 3 /s (3.3 cm) per day over the past week. The weather forecast indicates an upper low will move through the Nechako region by Thursday evening and may stall over the central Interior until Saturday. Rainfall totals expected over this period range from 10 to 20 mm over the Nechako basin and from 30 to 50 mm total rain near Burns Lake. Due to the instability of the weather system, there is potential for embedded thunderstorm cells which are capable of producing localized short-term heavy downpours of up to 20 mm per hour. At this point, weather models have uncertainty over the location of the upper low later in the week and therefore there is associated uncertainty of the location of heaviest rainfall during this event. Given the current conditions and the weather forecast, flows on the Nautley River, Stellako River, and Francois Lake are expected to continue to slowly drop over the next three days. Water levels may increase 3 to 5 cm on the weekend depending on the amount of rain received in the headwaters of these water bodies. Pending any changes to releases from Skins Lake Spillway and subject to total rainfall received, the Nechako River at Vanderhoof is expected to increase to 650 m 3 /s (gauge water level is 5.283 m) by Saturday. Flows on the Nechako River at Isle Pierre (WSC 08JC002) are at 908 m 3 /s (gauge water level is 4.65 m) and are forecast to reach 930 m 3 /s (4.75 m gauge height) by Saturday. Flows are expected to reach 1050 m 3 /s by early next week due to increased flows from the upper basin and the Stuart River basin. Water levels on the Fraser River at South Fort George (WSC 08KE018) are at 8.374 m and are expected to increase to 8.53 m by Saturday. The eastern headwaters of the Fraser River will see higher flows this weekend, slightly above the 2-year return period flow. Local residents are reminded to stay clear of streams during the spring runoff period due to highly saturated and unstable riverbank conditions and swiftly flowing water. Livestock and other possessions of value should be moved to higher terrain if possible. Due to the uncertainty in the precipitation totals forecasts for late this week, forecast flows may change substantially by Friday. An updated advisory will be issued at that time. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
