Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region - Flood Watch – Cariboo, Chilcotin (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – Chilako River (DOWNGRADED), Dean River ISSUED: 8:30 AM May 1, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Cariboo and Chilcotin (Fraser Plateau) including tributary rivers and streams around Williams Lake, Quesnel, Alexis Creek, Anahim Lake, and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for : Tributary rivers and streams around Chilako and south-west of Prince George The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for : Dean River Snowmelt rates have increased slightly over the past day or two. In some areas snow packs are dwindling (particularly below 1300-1400m) leading to an easing on river levels. In mid elevations (1400-1600m) some snow remains and is expected to melt over the next 1-2 weeks. In watersheds with terrain above 1400m, on-going river rises from snowmelt are possible. This includes watersheds around highway 24, the San Jose River and the Bridge Creek near Deka Lake. Watersheds with terrain primarily below 1400m are seeing on-going receding flows, however remain sensitive to additional rises from rainfall over the weekend. Current reported river conditions as of 6:00AM Friday May 1st include: Baker Creek at Quesnel (08KE016) gauge has been repaired and on-site water measurements taken yesterday. Current flow is estimated as 68 m3/s (2-year to 5-year) and receding Sheridan Creek above McLeese Lake (08MC045) is flowing at 2.6 m3/s (2-year) and receding San Jose above Boreland Creek (08MC040) is estimated to be flowing at 25.4 m3/s (50-year flow) and slowly receding (less than 5cm per day) Chilako River upstream of the Highway 16 bridge continues to recede at Dean River below Tanswanket Creek (08FC003) is flowing at 124m3/s (2-year to 5-year flow) and receding at approximately 10cm per day A ridge is expected to build today, with some warming of temperatures. In areas with snowpack remaining this will lead to a modest increase in snowmelt rates and potential rise in rivers. Over the weekend a low-pressure system is expected to impact the province, with rainfall primarily focused on the west side of the Coast Mountains, with some showers and rain into the Interior. Rises in river levels over the weekend are possible. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
