Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast ISSUED: January 26, 2018 9:00 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast including: Howe Sound including the Stawamus River and surrounding creeks and tributaries Sunshine Coast including streams around Gibsons, Sechelt and surrounding areas North Shore Mountains including the Seymour River and surrounding creeks and tributaries Lower Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding creeks and tributaries. An atmospheric river storm event is expected to impact the south coast of British Columbia Sunday and Monday. Rainfall amounts are forecast between 50-200mm. Freezing levels are expected to rise into the 1500-2000 m range during the storm. Snowmelt from mid-elevation terrain may add to runoff for this event. In watersheds with higher terrain, including the Squamish River and Lillooet River, snow may be the dominant form of precipitation, and river responses are expected to be lower than more coastal areas. River levels are expected to rise rapidly in response to heavy rain. High streamflow is expected on rivers throughout the region, with the highest flows expected on Monday and possibly Tuesday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level of advisory. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level of advisory. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level of advisory.. Links: River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
