Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Bonaparte River (DOWNGRADED) Flood Watch –North Thompson (ENDED), Thompson River at Kamloops (ENDED) High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson (DOWGRADED), Thompson River at Spences Bridge, Tributaries of South Thompson (ENDED), Tributaries of North Thompson (ENDED) ISSUED: 11:00 AM July 7th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for: Bonaparte River The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watch for: North Thompson River Thompson River at Kamloops The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: South Thompson (DOWNGRADED) Thompson River at Spences Bridge The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River including Blue River, Clearwater River and surrounding tributaries Tributaries of the South Thompson including Shuswap River, Shuswap Lake, Adams River Runoff from heavy rainfall last week has worked its way through tributary rivers throughout the region. Rivers have experienced their peak flows from this event, and river levels are now receding. In some areas, including the Bonaparte River, South Thompson River and lower Thompson River at Spences Bridge, flows remain high as the rivers slowly recede. River levels are expected to continue to recede through the week. Unsettled weather patterns this week may slow the rate of drop in some rivers, or may lead to modest increases in levels, however significant additional rises in river levels are not expected at this time. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
