Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - South Coast and Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 10:30 AM November 4, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: South Coast including tributaries around the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Squamish, North Shore Mountains, Fraser Valley and surrounding areas Vancouver Island including West Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island, South Vancouver Island and East Vancouver Island Moderate to heavy rainfall amounts (30 to 120 mm) have accumulated over the past two days on Vancouver Island and the South Coast. River flows have risen in response to the rainfall. However, most rivers in the regions have remained below flood levels (below 2-year return period). Additional rainfall (20 to 60 mm) is forecast on Wednesday evening and some rivers may experience additional rapid rises. Flows will likely remain elevated through Thursday but should recede quickly afterwards due to colder and drier conditions into the weekend. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
