Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - North Coast, Central Coast, Vancouver Island, South Coast ISSUED: 12:00 PM February 19, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding areas Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River, Owikeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas Vancouver Island South Coast including tributaries around the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Squamish, Pemberton, North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver, Fraser Valley and surrounding areas A major weather pattern shift will occur this weekend. The cold arctic outflow affecting the province over the past week will switch to moist, mild weather systems. Heavy precipitation (80-150mm) will accumulate over western-facing slopes stretching from Stewart to Gold River, with moderate amounts of 50-100 mm over western-facing slopes of Vancouver Island and the Lower Mainland. The centre of the storm is currently forecast for the Bella Bella/Bella Coola region with precipitation totals nearing 200 mm. Freezing levels will rise to 800-1,000 metres over the North Coast Saturday evening, and to 1,500 metres Saturday night/Sunday for the South Coast. Heavy mountain snow accumulation is expected throughout the province. Lower elevation creeks and rivers are most at risk, especially where recent coastal snowfall may create a flashier rain-on-snow event. River levels are expected to rise quickly in response to this storm, with high flows expected Sunday through Monday. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
