Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Englishman River, Little Qualicum River High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: 3:45 PM January 3, 2019 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Englishman River Little Qualicum River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or adding a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast and Vancouver Island including: Central Vancouver Island (ADDED) – including Sproat River, Somass River, Port Alberni and surrounding areas East Vancouver Island (ADDED) – including Parksville, Qualicum and surrounding areas South Vancouver Island (ADDED) - including the Chemainus River, Koksilah River, Cowichan River and surrounding areas Howe Sound – including the Stawamus River and tributaries along the Sea-to-Sky Highway Sunshine Coast – including watersheds around Gibsons and Sechelt North Shore – including the Seymour River and watersheds around North Vancouver and West Vancouver Fraser Valley – including the Chilliwack River, and mountainous tributaries on the north side of the Fraser Valley West Vancouver Island – including tributaries around Tofino, Bamfield, Port Renfrew and surrounding areas An intense Pacific frontal system has stalled over south-west British Columbia, bringing heavy rainfall across the region. Rainfall amounts exceeding 150mm have been observed since yesterday on West Vancouver Island, and 60-100+ mm in Central Vancouver Island, Eastern Vancouver Island, Howe Sound and Lower Mainland. Streamflow has been rising rapidly in response to this rainfall, with areas on Vancouver Island currently reaching or exceeding 2-year return period flows. The Little Qualicum River near Qualicum Beach (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08HB029) is currently flowing at approximately 210 m3/s (20-year flow). Additional rises are possible later on Wednesday. For larger and lake-influenced systems, including the Cowichan River and Somass River, rises are expected into Thursday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
