Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Lillooet River High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast ISSUED: 8:30 AM October 10, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Lillooet River The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: South Coast including the Sea-to-Sky corridor, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, Squamish River and surrounding tributaries Heavier rainfall on Friday and overnight has led to rapidly rising river levels across the region. Rainfall totals over the last 36 hours have been observed in the 90-110mm range in mountainous areas along Howe Sound and the North Shore Mountains, and in the 40-60 mm range inland through the Sea-to-Sky corridor and Pemberton. While rainfall is now easing and some rivers have reached peak levels, flows are expected to remain high on Saturday, particularly on the larger systems of the Squamish River and Lillooet River. Rivers are not expected to see significant additional rises above current conditions. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
