Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Flood Warning: Upper Fraser River (Prince George)
Issued: 09July2011 9:15 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the High Streamflow Advisory to a Flood Warning
for:
     •   Upper Fraser River (Prince George)
Continued light to moderate precipitation in the Upper Fraser watershed throughout today has
contributed additional runoff to the system and the Fraser River and area tributaries have
continued to rise. The discharge on the McGregor River (WSC 08KB003) rose to 1495 m3/s
which is above a 5‐year return period flow, and the Fraser River at Hansard (WSC 08KA004) is at
2123 m3/s and is approaching a 5‐year return flow. The Fraser River at Shelley (WSC 08KB001)
was about 3100 m3/s mid‐afternoon and approaching a 2‐year return period flow, rising at 5‐7
cm/hour. The Fraser River at South Fort George rose from 7.97m at 4AM to its most recent
observation at 5::40PM of 8.75 m, and has risen at a rate of 5‐6 cm/hour over that time.
The weather forecast for tonight is Prince George is for showers to end early this evening, with
a 40% chance of showers overnight and again tomorrow afternoon. The Fraser River at Prince
George will continue to rise overnight and is expected to exceed the July 2nd peak of 9.21 m
early tomorrow morning, and will continue to rise throughout the day.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant. Current streamflow information is available from the River Forecast Centre
website: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/ .




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
