Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast and Central Coast ISSUED: 1:15 PM October 26, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding areas Central Coast including Bella Coola River, Kingcome River, Owikeeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas A slow-moving frontal system is expected to sweep across northern and central coastal regions through the early part of the week. Areas around Prince Rupert, Terrace and Kitimat are expected to see rising temperatures and rainfall later on Monday and into Tuesday. Central Coast areas, including areas around Bella Coola, are expected to see increased rainfall rates on Tuesday, with the system sliding further south, with increased rainfall rates in the Rivers Inlet/Owikeeno and then Kingcome later on Tuesday and into Wednesday. Current rainfall forecasts are for 50 mm or more in the North Coast, 50-70 mm for inland areas in the Central Coast, and 100 mm for outer coastal areas in the Central Coast. Higher rainfall amounts are possible over higher terrain. With some snow on the ground at low-to-mid elevations, this is expected to melt and provide additional runoff to rivers. However temperatures are not forecast to rise dramatically (low elevation and coastal areas reaching up to 8-12C), and precipitation may fall as snow over higher terrain and towards further inland regions. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
