Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region - High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – North Thompson Tributaries, North Okanagan, Nicola River (NEW), Salmon River (Salmon Arm) ISSUED: 1:30 PM May 14, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River around Clearwater and Barriere Nicola River (NEW) including Upper Nicola River above Nicola Lake and downstream through Spences Bridge North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby and Winfield Salmon River near Salmon Arm Rivers have remained high through the region due snowmelt rates and some rainfall events over the past week. Snowmelt from mid-elevations is beginning to ease as areas become snow-free and it is expected that the peak runoff from snowmelt in all but the high-elevation watersheds in the region is currently underway or has passed. River levels have remained stable over the past 2-3 days with drier conditions and easing temperatures and snowpack. Flows are expected to remain high but stable over the next few days. Later this weekend and into early next week a pattern of unsettled weather is expected, with the potential for heavier amounts of precipitation. This may lead to another period of increased streamflow Sunday through Tuesday. At this time hydrologic modelling is indicating that flows may rise above levels that have been previously experienced this year. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
