Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – Nicola Lake, South Thompson High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) - Okanagan, Bonaparte River, Salmon River, North Thompson ISSUED: 11:30 AM June 8th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Nicola Lake South Thompson River including Shuswap River, Shuswap Lake and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Thompson River including mainstem and Clearwater River and smaller tributaries Central Okanagan including tributaries around Kelowna including Mission Creek and Mill Creek and surrounding areas Bonaparte River North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby, Winfield and surrounding areas Salmon River near Salmon Arm River levels have been improving over the past week due to cooler weather and diminished rainfall. Weather forecasts for the upcoming week are indicating on-going unsettled weather, however no heavy rainfall is expected. River conditions are expected to continue to improve through the week. Flows and levels are expected to remain high on Nicola Lake and the mainstem and tributaries of the South Thompson River, including Shuswap Lake. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
