Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning (UPGRADED) – Nazko/West Road River Flood Watch (MAINTAINED) – Cariboo, Chilcotin including Cache Creek area ISSUED: 9:00 AM April 20, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for: Nazko River and West Road River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Cariboo and Chilcotin (Fraser Plateau) including tributary rivers and streams around Chilako, Prince George, Williams Lake, Quesnel, Alexis Creek, Anahim Lake, Cache Creek and surrounding areas Cold spring weather over the past month has transition to climbing temperatures over the past several days throughout the BC Interior. Daily maximum temperatures over the past few days has been in the in 10-18˚C range in Williams Lake and Prince George, compared to the sub-zero daily maximum temperatures that persisted earlier in the month. Snowmelt rates have increased, with reports that the rapid transition in temperatures may be playing a factor in increased overland flow due to frozen ground conditions and ice-jamming. River levels have been rising rapidly, with high flows being observed in small tributary rivers and creeks throughout the Interior Plateau from Cache Creek north through Williams Lake, Quesnel and west across the Chilcotin. Current reported river conditions as of 8:00AM include: West Road River near Cinema (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08KG001) is flowing at an estimated 500 m3/s (20-year flow) and rising Baker Creek at Quesnel (08KE016) is flowing at 65 m3/s (approaching 5-year flow) and rising San Jose above Boreland Creek (08MC040) is flowing at 10 m3/s (5-year to 10-year flow) and rising Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (08LF002) is flowing at 35 m3/s (2-year to 5-year flow) and rising Temperatures are expected to continue to rise, with today expected to be the hottest day of this current warm spell. Daytime high temperatures up to 16-19˚C are forecasted for Prince George and Williams Lake today, and then temperatures are expected to ease slightly into the rest of the week. Snowmelt rates are expected to continue to increase today, with continued rises in streamflow today and into Tuesday as a result of increased runoff. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
