Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region - High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) – North Thompson Tributaries, North Okanagan, Nicola River, Salmon River (Salmon Arm) ISSUED: 2:30 PM May 19, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River around Clearwater and Barriere Nicola River including Upper Nicola River above Nicola Lake and downstream through Spences Bridge North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby and Winfield Salmon River near Salmon Arm Wide-spread precipitation throughout the region was observed Sunday and Monday, with rainfall amounts in the 15-25mm range being observed in most areas. This rainfall has led to rapid rises in river levels on Monday and into Tuesday in some areas. River levels have generally reached peak levels from runoff from this rainfall event, except in areas of the Upper Nicola River where flows continue to rise. River levels are expected to remain elevated over this week with on-going melt of snow pack in contributing watersheds. Over this period, rivers are sensitive to additional rises from rainfall. Unsettled weather is expected through this week, with current weather forecasting indicating rainfall further east into the Kootenays. If these patterns shift west into the South Interior additional rises on river levels are possible and may be above peak levels experienced over the past couple of days. Current forecasting is indicating that flows should remain below the 2-5 year range throughout the region. If precipitation remains lighter through the region, as forecasted, rivers should stabilize and recede through the week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
