Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch - Pine River (Upgraded) High Streamflow Advisory - Peace Region around Fort St. John (Maintained) Updated: 1:00pm, July 21st, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for: The Pine River and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for: Peace Region around Fort St. John including the Kiskatinaw River, Pouce Coupe River, Dawson Creek, and tributaries The heavy rainfall in the region yesterday and this morning has caused rapid rises of river levels in the Pine River and tributaries and moderate rises in the Peace River and tributaries overnight and this morning. Further 25 - 50 mm rainfall is forecast for this afternoon and tomorrow. Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the Pine River and tributaries are expected to peak at the 10 to 20 year return period flows tonight or tomorrow morning, similar to peak levels reached in June 2016. The public are cautioned to stay clear from rivers and the unstable riverbanks during this high water period. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
