River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Mission Creek, Salmon River, Kettle River, Shuswap Region (Maintained) High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior, Central Interior, Boundary, South-East BC (Maintained) UPDATED: May 6, 2017 9:45 AM The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Kettle River Shuswap Region including tributary streams Mission Creek Salmon River The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior, Central Interior and South-East BC including: South Interior including small streams and rivers around Princeton, Tulameen, Penticton, Osoyoos, Kelowna, Vernon, Kamloops, Salmon Arm and surrounding areas Central Interior including the Bonaparte River and small streams around Merritt, Cache Creek, Clinton and surrounding areas Boundary including the Granby River and small streams and rivers around Grand Forks and surrounding areas South-East BC including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo, Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas Snowmelt and thunderstorms over the past several days has led to significant streamflow across the region. Rainfall totals over the past 36 hours have been in the 5-40 mm range through the region, with periods of high intensity rain observed. Radar monitoring indicates overnight and early morning rainfall, particularly through the Okanagan Valley through to the Shuswap Region, the Boundary, and into the Kootenays. To the west of the region, thundershowers eased yesterday in the areas around Princeton north to Merritt and Cache Creek. Creeks and rivers have remained high this morning. Current conditions include: West Kettle River at Westbridge (WSC 08NN003) is flowing at 218 m3/s (20-year flow). Additional rises are expected through the mid-day on Saturday. Granby River near Grand Forks (08NN002) is flowing at 320 m3/s (5-year flow) and is expected to see additional rises through mid-day Saturday Mission Creek near East Kelowna (WSC NM116) is flowing at 80 m3/s (5-year flow) and is now receding from a peak of 100 m3/s overnight Salmon River at Falkland (WSC 08LE020) was flowing at 45 m3/s (20-year flow) and is nearing peak levels Salmon River near Salmon Arm (WSC 08LE021) is flowing at 45 m3/s (5-year flow) and is nearing peak levels Nicola River near Spences Bridge (08LG006) is flowing at approximately 325 m3/s (20-year flow) and is expected to remain high through Saturday A drying trend is expected through Saturday. Flows throughout the region are expected to remain high through Saturday. Additional rises in river levels may occur through the mid-day on Saturday on larger rivers, particularly in the Okanagan, Shuswap and Boundary. Conditions are expected to improve into Sunday. Additional rainfall is forecasted into Sunday in south-east BC, and additional rises in flow are expected in the Kootenays on Sunday and into Monday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
