Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region – Flood Watch – Bonaparte River (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory Similkmeen (DOWNGRADED), Lower Nicola River (DOWNGRADED), Okanagan (DOWNGRADED), Salmon River (DOWNGRADED), North Thompson, South Thompson, Shuswap High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) – Upper Nicola River ISSUED: 9:30 AM June 1st, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Bonaparte River The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Similkameen and tributaries including the Ashnola River Nicola River including the Coldwater River and Nicola River and downstream of Nicola Lake through Spences Bridge Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby, Winfield, Kelowna, Penticton, Osoyoos including Mission Creek and Mill Creek and surrounding areas Salmon River near Salmon Arm The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Thompson River including mainstem and Clearwater River and smaller tributaries South Thompson River including Shuwsap River and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for: Nicola River upstream of Nicola Lake Weekend rainfall has led to high streamflow throughout the region over the past 2 days. Most areas have now experienced the peak river levels from this rainfall runoff. In small and mid-sized watersheds, river levels are expected to continue to improve through this week. On the Bonaparte River, additional rises in river levels are possible over the coming few days as rainfall runoff works its way down from the headwaters; approximately 20-25mm of precipitation was observed over the weekend within the watershed. In the South Thompson (and tributaries including the Shuwsap River) and North Thompson Rivers, rises in river levels in the 2-year to 5-year range are expected early this week, with the potential for flows on the South Thompson to reach up to 10-year flows later in the week. River levels on the Thompson River at Kamloops are forecast to reach around the 2-year level later this week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
