Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Nazko River Issued: 14:30 PM April 17, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Warning for: Nazko River and tributaries Hot temperatures in the Nazko River basin and adjacent areas last week and Saturday have incurred significant amounts of snowmelt that resulted in bank full water levels in the Nazko River, which are threatening the local communities according to a report to EMBC. The Nazko River is an ungauged river system. It is estimated that the NAZKO RIVER ABOVE MICHELLE CREEK (08KF001), which is an inactive Water Survey of Canada station, is currently running at 65 m3/s, which is a flow between the 2- and 5-year return periods. The current hydrologic modeling indicates the streamflow in the Nazko River is expected to continue to rise rapidly this weekend into next week, peaking at about 130 m3/s, which is a flow about the 10-year return period, late Sunday or early Monday. The current hydrologic modeling also indicates that the WEST ROAD RIVER NEAR CINEMA (08KG001) is rising significantly in the coming two days and expected to peak at 345 m3/s, which is a 10-year return period flow, on next Monday. Please refer to the page of forecast for details of the above forecasts. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
