River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Columbia, South Thompson River High Streamflow Advisory – Shuswap, East Kootenay, Slocan, North Thompson, Thompson, West Kootenay UPDATED: June 9, 2017 3:00 PM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 3:00 PM on Friday, June 9th are: Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – Flood Watch South Thompson River – Flood Watch Shuswap River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) East Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Slocan River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Eagle River – High Streamflow Advisory North Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – High Streamflow Advisory West Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory River levels have been rising rapidly in response to rain and thundershowers over the past day. Rainfall amounts in the 5-40mm range have been observed throughout the region, with the highest amounts occurring through the Columbia region and East Kootenay. Rainfall has eased through the region, however additional rain is forecast over the weekend. A summary of conditions and outlook is: Kicking Horse River at Golden (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NA006) is currently flowing at 270 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). The rate of rise on the river is slowing down, and future rises are possible Saturday/Sunday in response to additional rainfall over the weekend Elk River near Fernie (WSC 08NK002) is currently flowing at 260 m3/s (2-year flow) and rate of rise is slowing. Additional rises are possible over the weekend with additional rain. Slocan River near Crescent Valley (WSC 08NJ013) is currently flowing at 535 m3/s (5-year flow) and slowly receding. Addition rises are possible over the weekend, with current forecasted flows expected to remain below 650 m3/s. South Thompson River at Chase (WSC08LE031) is currently flowing at 1240 m3/s (10-year flow). Rises up to 1300 m3/s are forecast by the middle to end of next week. North Thompson River at McLure (WSC08LB064) is currently flowing at 1765 m3/s (2-year). Flows are forecast to reach up to 2000-2200 m3/s (5-year flow) by Sunday-Monday. Flows may be higher if rainfall is higher than forecasted in the headwaters over the next 24 hours (eg. if observed rainfall exceeds 25mm) The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
