Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region – Flood Watch – Cottonwood (NEW), Quesnel River, Horsefly River High Streamflow Advisory – North Rockies (NEW), Upper Fraser, San Jose/Bridge ISSUED: 9:30 AM June 5, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining to a Flood Watch for: Cottonwood River (NEW) Quesnel River Horsefly River The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Rockies including the Muskwa River, Sikanni Chief River and tributaries west of Fort St. John and Fort Nelson Upper Fraser River including Prince George and upstream and tributaries including the Bowron River Cariboo and including tributary rivers and streams near Williams Lake and Quesnel areas east, including the San Jose River, Bridge Creek Flows through the region have been high due to on-going snowmelt and rainfall earlier in the week. On the Fraser River, Bowron River, and Horsefly River flows have peaked and are stabilizing. On Quesnel Lake and the Quesnel River at the outlet, the rate of rise has been easing. On the San Jose River and Bridge Creek, flows remain elevated from flooding earlier in the spring; flows are expected to remain elevated however significant rises on not expected on these rivers at this time. A summary of current conditions includes: Horsefly River above Quesnel Lake (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08KH031) is flowing at 190 m3/s (between 2-year and 5-year flow) and dropping Quesnel River near Quesnel (08KH006) is flowing at 1020 m3/s (10-year to 20-year flow) and easing Bowron River near Box Canyon (08KD007) is flowing at 470 m3/s (5-year to 10-year flow) and easing Fraser River at Shelley (08KB001) is flowing at 2800 m3/s (below a 2-year flow) and easing While short term conditions are stabilizing or improving, weather over the next few days may lead to deteriorating conditions over the weekend and into next week. A series of disturbances is expected to bring moderately heavy rainfall to the North Rockies (40-100 mm) and moderately high amounts into the Upper Fraser watershed and Cariboo Mountains (25-50mm). This rainfall is expected to bring rises to rivers through the weekend and into the early part of next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
