Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Flood Watch: Birkenhead River
High Streamflow Advisory: South Coast
Issued: 12 May 2013 4:55 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:
     •   Birkenhead River
     •   Depending on local rainfall amounts, other streams in the region may approach flood
         condition
The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Lillooet River and tributaries
     •   Squamish River
     •   Tributary creeks through the Sea‐to‐Sky Corridor and Pemberton Valley
Snowmelt has been rapid over the past week as a result of unseasonably high temperatures.
Rivers throughout the South Coast have been flowing high in response to this snow melt. River
levels have surged over the past 24 hours in response to heavy rainfall overnight. Observed
precipitation at local fire weather stations ranged from 15‐45 mm.
Additional rainfall is expected tonight and Monday, with amounts in the range of 15‐50 mm
expected. Coastal areas (e.g. Squamish) are expected to receive higher rainfall amounts
compared with more inland areas (e.g. Pemberton).
River levels may drop slightly through Sunday evening in advance of the next wave of
precipitation. However, rapid additional rises are expected throughout Monday, with peak river
levels expected late‐Monday and into Tuesday. Flows in the Squamish, Lillooet and tributary
rivers are expected to reach between 2‐year and 10‐year return period levels.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will an update by 10:00 am
on Monday, May 13th.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
