Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast (DOWNGRADED) High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast (NEW) ISSUED: 11:00 AM October 31, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is downgrading from a Flood Watch to a High Streamflow Advisory for: Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River, Owikeeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: North Coast including tributaries around Stewart, Nass Valley, Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat surrounding areas Coastal regions are in an in between pattern between storm systems. Heavy rain over the past week has led to high flow conditions along the Central Coast, with flows now slowly receding. Drier weather is expected through the weekend, with additional rainfall expected early next week, and may lead to additional river rises on Monday and Tuesday. In the North Coast, a Pacific front is expected to bring warm, moist air and precipitation into the region later on Saturday and into Sunday. Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a rainfall warning for the North Coast, with forecasted rainfall amounts up to 80 mm expected. Rivers on the North Coast are expected to rise through Sunday and into Monday. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
