Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory - Northeast Issued: 12:30PM July 23, 2019 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the Northeast including: The MUSKWA RIVER NEAR FORT NELSON (10CD001) The SIKANNI CHIEF RIVER NEAR FORT NELSON (10CB001) The FONTAS RIVER NEAR THE MOUTH (10CA001) Other rivers and creeks in the Northeast, including Fort Nelson River, the Prophet River, Petitot River and tributaries. According to Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC), a large-scale, longwave upper trough is moving over northern British Columbia this afternoon and overnight and will generate widespread and severe thunderstorms for the Northeast region, including Fort Nelson. The ECCC's CMC numerical weather prediction (NWP) system forecasts 50-150 mm of rain beginning tomorrow night into Thursday, with the highest rainfall rates on Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Based on the forecasted rainfall and other climatologic and hydrologic conditions, the CLEVER model (updated July 23rd; ( http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html ) currently forecasts that flows could increase rapidly and possibly reach flood levels beginning Thursday and peaking between Friday to Monday, July 29th. It is also likely that flash floods occur in the ungauged, smaller river systems from Wednesday night through the weekend. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during periods of rapid-rising river levels. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor the conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
