Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Northeast Region: High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River, Upper Fraser, and mainstream of Middle Fraser (maintained) Updated: 13:00 July 23, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for: The Quesnel River The Upper Fraser River including tributaries above Hansard The mainstream of Middle Fraser River to Lytton The QUESNEL RIVER NEAR QUESNEL (08KH006) is currently flowing at a flow below the 10-year return period level and the QUESNEL RIVER AT LIKELY (08KH001) is running at a flow between the 10 and 20-year return periods. Based on the latest updated hydrological modeling, the flows are expected to continue to drop for the rest of the week and increase slightly this weekend in response to the forecast moderate rainfall. However, significant rises in the smaller tributaries are likely. Responding to the forecast light to moderate rainfall for this region, smaller tributaries of the Upper Fraser River above Hansard are expected to rise significantly to flows about the 5-year return period tonight and tomorrow. The large tributaries and the mainstream of the Upper Fraser River are expected to rise slightly to flows below the 5-year return period this weekend. The mainstream of the Middle Fraser River is also expected to rise slightly to a flow below the 5-year return period this weekend into early next week. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-river-level period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
