Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River UPDATED: 1630h May 15th, 2018 The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Fraser River including the mainstem from Lytton through Hope and the Fraser Valley Persistent warmer than normal temperatures across British Columbia for the past three weeks has led to a much earlier than normal runoff period for the Fraser River. High temperatures over the weekend and early this week are leading to rises in the headwaters of the Fraser River upstream of Prince George, and in other tributaries. Flows have been rising throughout the downstream reaches of the Fraser River. Note areas upstream on the Fraser River, including Prince George and Quesnel, are covered on a separate Flood Watch. The Water Survey of Canada gauge Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is currently flowing at 10,000 m3/s and rising. Water level at the Fraser River at Mission gauge (08MH024) today was 5.55m. Flows are expected to continue to rise through the week, with increased rates in rise anticipated over the long weekend. Current flow forecasts for Hope are for flows to reach the 12,000 m3/s range this weekend and into next week. Water level forecasts predict water levels at Mission of 6.0 m on May 17th, 6.4m on May 19th, and up to 6.64m on May 24th. With on-going hot weather forecast through this weekend, and the potential for rain in the watershed next week, additional rises on the Fraser River are expected next week. Complete 10-day Lower Fraser River Water Level Forecasting and results are available at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/lower_fraser/LFR-10-DayFloodLevelForecasts.pdf The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Contact: Media relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
