Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

UPDATE – Flood Warning: Central and Southern Peace Region
Issued: 09July2011 12:00 PM

The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the Flood Watch to a Flood Warning for:
•      Central and Southern Peace Region

Heavy rain has been observed over the past 36 hours in the Peace Region, with the highest amounts to
the southern and eastern portions. Total precipitation observations in the Peace Region since yesterday
include 65 mm at Chetwynd, and 70 mm at Dawson Creek, with lesser amounts in other areas.

Rivers in the south Peace Region have been rising since late yesterday and are continuing to rise today.
The Piine River at East Pine (WSC 08FB001) at 9:30 AM was flowing at approximately 1300 m3/s which is
a 2‐year return period flow, and the water level has been rising at a rate of 15 cm/hour since early this
morning. The Moberly River (08FB008) has also been rising at a rate of 1‐2 cm/hour since yesterday and
the discharge at 7AM was 89 m3/s, which is approaching a 5‐year return period flow. The Kiskatinaw
River near Farmington (WSC 08FD001) is reporting a discharge of 343 m3/s at 10AM, which is above a 5‐
year return period flow. Although 36 mm of precipitation was recorded at the Halfway River near
Farrell Creek (WSC 09FA006) the water level has not exhibited the same rise in water level and is
currently stable at a discharge of approximately 230 m3/s.

Environment Canada is maintaining the Rainfall Warning for the Peace River Region. Although rainfall
intensity has decreased, an additional 5‐10 mm is forecast for today with higher amounts up to 20 mm
closer to the mountains in the south. Rain will continue tonight with another 5‐15 mm, easing to
showers by Sunday morning. Water levels will continue to rise today and will peak on most systems
later today or tomorrow, depending on when the rainfall eases. Rivers with larger lakes such as the
Moberly River will remain elevated and will peak early next week.

The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update as
conditions warrant. Current streamflow information is available from the River Forecast Centre
website: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
