Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Flood Watch – Kettle and Moyie Rivers
High Streamflow Advisory – Kootenay and Kettle Regions
26May2011 7:45 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for the:
    •    West Kettle River and Kettle River

    •    Moyie River (Yahk)



The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the:
    •    Kettle/Boundary and Kootenay Regions


River levels in the region have been rising or flowing high for the past 1‐2 weeks due to the
onset of the spring snow melt season. Environment Canada has issued a rainfall warning for the
Boundary, East Kootenay, West Kootenay, Kootenay Lake and the Elk Valley, with forecasted
precipitation amounts of up to 25mm through the day, and continued precipitation into Friday.
Temperatures associated with this system are low, and snow melt is expected to be limited.
Current river levels are currently high on the West Kettle, Kettle and Moyie, as well as other
localized ungauged areas. Currently the West Kettle River at Westbridge (WSC 08NN003) is
flowing at 121 m3/s, or a 2‐year flow, the Kettle River near Westbridge (WSC 08NN026) is
flowing at a 2‐year flow of 231 m3/s, and the Moyie River at Eastport (USGS 12306500) is
flowing at a 2‐year flow of 157 m3/s. Other gauged rivers in the region are currently flowing
below the 2‐year flow level.
River levels across the region are expected to rise Thursday into Friday in response to the
rainfall event. The amount to which rivers rise will depend on the amount of precipitation that
occurs.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update as
conditions warrant.



A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
