Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories ENDED - Flood Watch – Englishman River and Nanaimo River ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island, South Coast ISSUED: 9:15 PM January 4, 2021 The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Watch for: East Vancouver Island from Nanaimo to Fanny Bay including the Englishman River, Nanaimo River and surrounding tributaries The River Forecast Centre is ending the High Streamflow Advisory for: West Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island, South Vancouver Island and other areas of Eastern Vancouver Island South Coast including tributaries around the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Squamish, Lillooet River, North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver, Fraser Valley and surrounding areas River responses from heavy rainfall and snowmelt last week and weekend has passed, and rivers have now receded. In lake-fed river systems, including Sproat Lake and Cowichan Lake, outflow remains high. Wet weather is expected to persist through the week; flows in rivers are expected to remain high but at this point flows are not anticipated to return to highs that were observed over the past few days. Additional rises in Sproat Lake and Cowichan Lake (and downstream outflow) are possible through this week, and will continue to be monitored. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
