Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Bonaparte River ISSUED: 7:30 AM May 22, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for: Bonaparte River Precipitation early in the week has been working its way through the Bonaparte River watershed, leading to rising flows. Current flow at the Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08LF002) is 72 m3/s (between a 20-year and 50-year flow). The rate of rise on the river is easing, however high flows are expected to remain high and the Bonaparte River may see additional rises today and potentially into the weekend. Modelling is indicating that snow melt runoff in the watershed is decreasing as limited snow remains in the headwaters. Once runoff from earlier rainfall has passed, rivers levels will recede. This is expected to occur over the next few days. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
