Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Flood Watch: Birkenhead River
High Streamflow Advisory: South Coast
UPDATE: 13 May 2013 11:15 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:
     •   Birkenhead River
     •   Depending on local rainfall amounts, other streams in the region may approach flood
         condition
The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Lillooet River and tributaries
     •   Squamish River
     •   Tributary creeks through the Sea‐to‐Sky Corridor and Pemberton Valley
Snowmelt has been rapid over the past week as a result of unseasonably high temperatures.
Rivers throughout the South Coast have been flowing high in response to this snow melt.
Additional rainfall is expected through Monday, with amounts in the range of 15‐40 mm
expected. Coastal areas (e.g. Squamish) are expected to receive higher rainfall amounts
compared with more inland areas (e.g. Pemberton). Temperatures are forecast to cool through
the next phase of precipitation overnight Monday and into Tuesday, and this should help to
reduce snow melt rates.
A summary of current river levels in the region:
    •    Elaho River near the mouth (Water Survey of Canada 08GA071) reached 800 m3/s
         yesterday (between a 2‐year and 5‐year flow) and is currently dropping.
    •    Squamish River near Brackendale (08GA022) reached 1200 m3/s yesterday (2‐year flow)
         and is currently dropping.
    •    Lillooet River near Pemberton (08MG005) reached 640 m3/s yesterday (between a 2‐
         year and 5‐year flow) and is currently dropping.
    •    Cheakamus River above Millar Creek (08GA072) is currently flowing at 82 m3/s (2‐year
         flow) and dropping slightly.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

River levels will continue to drop slightly through Monday in advance of the next wave of
precipitation. However, rapid additional rises are expected later Monday, with peak river levels
expected into Tuesday. Flows in the Squamish, Lillooet and tributary rivers are expected to
reach between 2‐year and 10‐year return period levels.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and provide updates if conditions
warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
