River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Kettle River, Salmon River, Nicola River - Merritt and upstream (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior, South-East BC (MAINTAINED) UPDATED: May 24, 2017 4:10 PM The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for: Kettle River and tributaries through Grand Forks, including the Granby River Salmon River Nicola River at Merritt and upstream, including Nicola Lake and tributaries The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Okanagan including Mission Creek Shuswap Region including the Shuswap River, Eagle River and surrounding tributaries Similkameen River including tributaries West Kootenay including Slocan River, Salmo River, and surrounding areas East Kootenay Nicola River downstream of Merritt Hot temperatures since the weekend have led to significant snow melt, and rising river levels. Temperatures eased overnight Tuesday, and through Wednesday. As the week progresses, temperatures are expected to rise again up into the upper-twenties, and snowmelt rates are expected to increase. Current modelling is indicating that rivers may see a brief reprieve in rises on Thursday and Friday, before beginning another round of rising levels into this weekend and potentially extending into next week. Rivers with higher elevation areas are expected to see more significant rises into this weekend and next week with hot temperatures and accelerated snowmelt. Current flow conditions include: West Kettle River at Westbridge (WSC gauge 08NN003) is flowing at 170 m3/s (10-year flow). Flows are expected to ease Thursday-Friday, followed by additional rising expected into the weekend. Mission Creek near East Kelowna (08NM116) reached a peak level earlier today of 77 m3/s (5-year flow) and has dropped down to 60 m3/s. Flows are expected to ease Thursday-Friday, followed by additional rising expected into the weekend. Salmon River near Salmon Arm (08LE021) is flowing at 47 m3/s (approaching a 10-year flow). Flows may reach up to the 50-52 m3/s into Thursday, and remain elevated. Additional rises are possible into the weekend. Coldwater River at Merritt (08LG010) is flowing at 73 m3/s (approaching a 5-year flow). Flows are expected to ease Thursday-Friday, followed by additional rising expected into the weekend. Similkameen River near Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at approximately 400 m3/s (2-year flow). Flows are expected to ease Thursday-Friday, followed by additional rising into the weekend. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
