Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Flood Warning UPDATE: Baker Creek (Quesnel), Willow River, Cottonwood
River

High Streamflow Advisory: Tributary rivers in the Prince George and Quesnel
areas, including the Salmon River (near Prince George) and Chilako River

Issued: 16May2011 10:30 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for Baker Creek near Quesnel, the
Cottonwood River near Quesnel, and the Willow River near Prince George. A High Streamflow
Advisory remains in effect for tributary rivers in the Prince George and Quesnel area, including
the Salmon River (near Prince George) and Chilako River.
River levels rose over the past week with warm weather and the onset of snow melt at low to
mid elevations. A frontal system pushed through on Wednesday to Thursday, and delivered 20‐
40+ mm of rainfall through the Quesnel and Prince George areas.
Drier conditions through the weekend have seen an easing off of river levels from peaks late‐
Friday.
On Baker Creek (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08KE016), flows reached a peak late‐Friday of
approximately 100 m3/s, nearly a 1 in 20 year flow. Water levels have dropped since Friday and
are currently at 2.40m. Discharge is approximately 45 m3/s, which just over a 1 in 2 year level.
The Water Survey of Canada gauge on the Willow River (08KD006) dropped over Saturday and
Sunday. Current flow approximately 300 m3/s, or a 5‐year flow level. Flooding has been
observed at the Willow River townsite.
The Cottonwood River is an ungauged system. Reports from flood management personnel on
the ground indicate that flow levels have been recedeeding since Saturday.
High Streamflow conditions are also expected on lower elevation tributary rivers in the Prince
George and Quesnel areas. Issues have been noted on the Salmon River near Prince George,
and the Chilako River. Overbank flooding may be occurring at these locations.
Snow pack levels are still significant through the regions mid and upper elevations. Snowline is
variable, and has been observed over the weekend to range from 1000m to 1400m. Snowpack
is sufficient in the upper elevations to continue supplying runoff for flows within the region.



A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

Environment Canada forecast is forecasting an upper low pressure system to move northward
across the Central Interior late‐Monday through to Tuesday. Precipitation associated with this
low pressure is expected. Precipitation levels in the 20‐30 mm range are forecast for late
Monday evening into Tuesday, with localized areas of up to 40 mm.
River levels will remain level, or decline slightly through Monday. Current precipitation
forecasts indicate that another rise of rivers in the area is expected into Tuesday, reaching
similar levels or exceeding levels observed last Friday. Peaks are expected late‐Tuesday or into
Wednesday. Other smaller rivers in the Prince George, Quesnel and Williams Lake area may
also experience high flows throughout Tuesday and Wednesday. How much and when rivers
rise will depend on the timing and extent of precipitation in this next weather system.


The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update as
warranted.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
