River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson River (DOWNGRADED), Thompson, Shuswap ENDED - Flood Watch – Columbia ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory –East Kootenay, Slocan, North Thompson, West Kootenay UPDATED: June 12, 2017 10:30 AM Current advisories from the River Forecast Centre as of 10:30 AM on Monday, June 12th are: South Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) Thompson River through Kamloops and downstream – High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) Shuswap River – High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) Columbia region including tributaries around Golden, Revelstoke and the Columbia Valley – Flood Watch (ENDED) East Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) Slocan River – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) Eagle River – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) North Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) West Kootenay – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) River conditions throughout southern British Columbia have been improving over the past few days. Snow packs have continued to melt and are contributing less runoff to streams and rivers. River levels have been receding throughout the region. On Shuswap Lake and the South Thompson River, levels appear to have reached a peak, with a small decline in levels observed over the past day. Continued improvement of river and lake levels is expected through this week. Current weather forecasts indicate the potential for some rainfall in the south-east corner of the province, which may lead to another period of rising river levels in that region. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
