Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Bonaparte River (UPGRADED) ISSUED: 7:30 PM July 4th, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for: Bonaparte River The Bonaparte River is rising rapidly and is flowing at 67 m3/s (20-year flow) as of 17:30PST. The river initially rose rapidly from the heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday, reaching an initial peak of 59 m3/s on Thursday evening. The river began to recede on Friday, but as of Saturday morning has risen rapidly, likely due to the delayed response of flows in the headwaters. Nearby watersheds reached extremely high flows. The Deadman River above Criss Creek (08LF027) reached 60 m3/s on Friday evening, which is between a 50-year and 100-year flow. Criss Creek near Savona (08LF007) reached at least 48 m3/s on Thursday (above a 20-year flow). The flow reached higher than the station's rating curve and it was estimated that the Creek reached above a 100-year flow. The Bonaparte River is rising at a rate of approximately 1 m3/s per hour over the past 12-hours. The most recent high flow event on the Bonaparte River was 78 m3/s on May 22nd. Based on the rate of rise, the river could reach these levels in the early morning hours on Sunday and may continue to go higher. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and provides updates as conditions warrant. BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250-213-8172 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
