River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Watch – Nicola River, Salmon River High Streamflow Advisory – Kettle River (Downgraded) High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) – Central Interior, South Interior South-East BC UPDATED: May 13, 2017 7:45 AM The following is the status of flood watches and advisories as of 745AM on Saturday morning: Nicola River including upstream tributaries – Flood Watch Salmon River – Flood Watch Kettle River – High Streamflow Advisory (Downgraded) Mission Creek – ENDED Granby River – ENDED Shuswap Region including small streams and rivers around Salmon Arm, Enderby, Sicamous and surrounding areas – ENDED Okanagan including small streams and rivers around Vernon, Lumby, Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas – ENDED Central Interior including the Bonaparte River and areas around Cache Creek – ENDED Similkameen including the Tulameen and Similkameen Rivers - High Streamflow Advisory - ENDED West Kootenay including small streams and rivers around Castlegar, Kaslo, Nelson, Salmo and surrounding areas - ENDED East Kootenay including small streams and rivers around Creston, Cranbrook and surrounding areas - ENDED Columbia including small streams and rivers around Revelstoke, Golden and surrounding areas - ENDED Thundershowers moved through the region Thursday afternoon and overnight. Rainfall totals since Thursday are in the 5-25mm range for most of the region. Temperatures have cooled significantly, with temperatures reaching below freezing at high elevation areas. River levels have generally peaked from this rainfall event. In some of the larger systems, flows are still elevated, or rising. This includes: Salmon River near Salmon Arm (WSC 08LE021) is currently flowing at 46 m3/s () and rising. Flows are expected to rise slowly through Saturday. Kettle River near Grand Forks is expected to be near peak levels as of Saturday morning. Flows are expected to remain high through Saturday, but significant additional rises are not expected. Flows are expected to remain below conditions observed last weekend. Nicola River above of Nicola Lake (08LG049) may see continued modest rises on Saturday Creeks and rivers through the region with significant upland storage (such as lakes) may still remain high. Flows on gauged rivers throughout the region are now receding. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will update the advisory as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
