River Forecast Centre - FLNRO - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content | Skip to navigation | Accessibility Statement Advanced Search | Help | Contact Us Search Form All B.C. Government url:env.gov.bc.ca/rfc/" id="s-section" checked> River Forecast Centre Search Quick Links News | The Premier Online | Ministries & Organizations | Job Opportunities | Main Index Contents B.C. Home Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations River Forecast Centre Freshet Information Flood Advisories and Warnings Low Streamflow Bulletins and Advisories Water Supply and Streamflow Conditions Bulletin Current Low Streamflow Advisories Snow Survey Bulletins and Commentaries Snow Survey and Water Supply Bulletin Current Archive ASP Commentary Data and Graphs Automated Snow Pillow Data Real-Time Archive Manual Snow Survey Data Current Archive Real-Time River Level and Discharge Data Maps BC Snow Survey Network Map Maps Based on Google Earth BC Snow Survey Sites BC Hydrometric Stations Freshet Map of Discharge Return Periods 7-Day Average Streamflow Map BC Watershed Map Snow Index Basins Lower Fraser River Gauge Location Map About Snow Surveys Snow Survey Network Inactive Snow Courses Snow Survey Schedule What is a Snow Survey? What is an Automated Snow Pillow? Glossary of Terms Related Links Media Inquiries and Contacts B.C. Home » FLNRO » River Forecast Centre Ministry of FLNRO Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory: Central Vancouver Island ISSUED: March 9 2016 3:00 PM The BC River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Central Vancouver Island including the Somass River and smaller tributaries in the region Rainfall associated with a Pacific storm system is expected to impact Vancouver Island overnight Wednesday and into Thursday morning. Environment Canada is forecasting precipitation amounts in the 50-80 mm range overnight. Temperatures are also expected to warm, and additional melt from snow is possible later in the storm cycle. The overall storm pattern is currently forecast to bring heavy rain across much of Vancouver Island. Rivers are expected to rise rapidly overnight in response to rainfall, and reach peak levels later on Thursday morning, or into Thursday afternoon. While the current assessment suggests that the highest flows are expected in Central Vancouver Island, including the Somass River and tributaries, high flows are also possible in adjacent areas, particularly if the storm systems stalls as it passes Vancouver Island. Higher flows are also possible into northern Vancouver Island, East Vancouver Island, and Southern Vancouver Island. The public is cautioned to stay clear of rivers during rain events due to quickly flowing water and potentially unstable riverbanks. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant. A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. Top Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Accessibility
