Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast ISSUED: 12:00 PM August 1, 2019 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast including the: Squamish River Stawamus River Lillooet River Sunshine Coast and Howe Sound Tributaries According to Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC), an unseasonable strong Pacific frontal system is expected to impact the South Coast late-Thursday and into Friday. The system is expected to tap into subtropical moisture, which will enhance rainfall rates. Rivers are expected to rise in response to this rainfall, with high flows through Friday and potentially into Saturday. While current rainfall forecasts may by typical for fall and winter storm events, they are unusual for August. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the period of rapid-rising river levels. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor the conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. BC River Forecast Centre Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
