Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

UPDATE: Flood Watch: Kootenay and Columbia
High Streamflow Advisory: Interior
Issued: 20 June 2013 10:00 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the advisory to a Flood Watch for:
     •   West and East Kootenay
     •   Upper Columbia (smaller tributary rivers)
     •   Lower Columbia (smaller tributary rivers)


The BC River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:
     •   Thompson Region (including the North Thompson, Salmon River, Shuswap River, Eagle
         River and surrounding areas)
     •   Okanagan (including Mission Creek)
     •   Boundary (including Kettle River and Granby River)
     •   Upper Columbia (Kicking Horse River)


A low pressure system has developed south of British Columbia and is bringing warm, moist air
into the province. Widespread heavy rainfall has occurred over the past 48 hours, with rainfall
amounts in the 20 to 70 mm range through the Boundary, Okanagan, and Thompson regions,
and 60 to 130 mm through the Columbia and Kootenay.
Small to medium‐sized watersheds have seen the biggest rises. River responses on gauged
rivers have been more limited. A summary of current conditions includes:
    •    Elk River at Fernie (WSC 08NK002) is flowing at 290 m3/s (between a 2‐year and 5‐year
         flow) with the rate of rise easing.
    •    Kootenay River at Fort Steele (08NG065) is flowing at 1000 m3/s (between a 2‐year and
         5‐year flow) and rising. Additional rises of 20‐40 cm are expected through Thursday.



A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

    •    Redfish Creek near Harrop (08NJ061) peaked yesterday at 14.5 m3/s (approximately 20‐
         year flow). No significant additional rises are expected today.
    •    Slocan River near Crescent Valley (08NJ013) is current flowing at 450 m3/s (2‐year flow).
         Additional rises of 20‐30 cm are expected through Thursday.
    •    Mission Creek is flowing at 53 m3/s (approaching a 2‐year flow) and is expected to see
         additional rises through Thursday.
Environment Canada has a rainfall warning in effect for the region, with 10‐20 mm of rain
expected through most areas, and up to 30 mm across the south‐east part of the province.
Additional rises in river levels are possible through Thursday. In smaller rivers, levels are
expected to drop once rainfall rates decline (possibly through the day Thursday). In larger
systems (e.g. Elk, Kootenay, Slocan) peak river levels are expected later on Thursday, with
easing levels into Friday.
The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide updates as
required.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
