Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations
BC River Forecast Centre

UPDATE ‐ Flood Warning: Bulkley River
Issued: 27May2011 9:20 AM

The BC River Forecast Centre is upgrading the advisory to a Flood Warning for the Bulkley River
(Houston, Quick, Smithers).
River levels have been rising sharply in the past 24 hours in response to significant rainfall and
on‐going snowmelt within the watershed.
Precipitation rates observed at Fire Weather Stations in the area over the past 36 hours have
been in 15‐30mm range, with the highest rates towards the west. Snow melt rates at snow
pillow sites in the region (Tsai Creek, Lu Lake) have been on the order of 20‐30mm/day for the
past several days.
The Bulkley River has been rising sharply since early on Thursday morning. At the Water Survey
of Canada gauge at Quick (08EE004) river levels are currently rising at approximately 3 cm/hr.
Flows at Quick are presently between a 10‐year and 20‐year flow at 800 m3/s. The Bulkley River
near Smithers (08EE005) is at 5.1m and rising at 2 cm/hour. The Bulkley at Houston (WSC
08EE003) is presently 3.73m and rising at 1 cm/hour. Water levels at these locations are at or
exceeding their previous high water levels from earlier in the week.
Environment Canada has issued a rainfall warning for the Bulkley Valley, with additional rainfall
amounts of 5‐10mm forecast for Friday. River levels are expected to continue to rise through
Friday and into the weekend. Flooding is expected in areas adjacent to the river.


The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and will provide an update as
conditions warrant.




A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding
is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
