Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Central Region - High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson Tributaries (NEW), Cache Creek/Bonaparte, North Okanagan, Upper Nicola River, Salmon River (Salmon Arm) ISSUED: 8:45 AM May 6, 2020 The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for: Tributaries of the North Thompson River around Clearwater and Barriere The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for: Cache Creek and Bonaparte River and surrounding areas Upper Nicola River above Nicola Lake North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon, Lumby and Winfield Salmon River near Salmon Arm Snowmelt runoff has been contributing to rising flows in most areas over the past week or two. Rainfall occurred over the region in the past 24 hours, with precipitation totals in the 5-15 mm range being observed at Fire Weather Stations across the region. River levels have been responding to snowmelt and rainfall. Current reported river conditions as of 7:00AM Wednesday May 6th include: Fishtrap Creek near McLure (08LB024) is flowing at 9m3/s (5-year flow) Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (08LF002) is flowing at 60 m3/s (10-year to 20-year flow) and has risen slightly over the past couple of days Salmon River at Falkland (08LE020) is flowing at 27 m3/s (2-year and 5-year flow) and has eased slightly over the past two days Nicola River at Outlet of Douglas Lake (08LG028) is flowing at 46 m3/s and has eased slightly over the past two days Coldstream Creek above Municipal Intake (08NM142) is flowing at 4 m3/s (10-year flow) and has eased slightly over the past two days Bessette Creek above Beaverjack Creek (08LC039) is flowing at 19 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow) and has eased slightly over the past two days A frontal system is expected to track over British Columbia today, with the potential for some showers through the region, and higher rainfall amounts (possible 10-30mm) forecast in the Cariboo Mountains and Monashees. Areas in the Cariboo Mountains (tributaries to the North Thompson River around Barriere, Clearwater and McLure) and the Monashees and North Okanagan (including areas around Vernon, Lumby, Enderby, and Sicamous) may see significant river rises today and into tomorrow if heavier showers materialize in watersheds. As the rest of the week progresses, a high pressure ridge is expected to develop over British Columbia, with temperatures warming into the weekend, with increasing flows expected for rivers with mid-to-high elevation snowpacks with snowmelt into the weekend. The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks during the high-streamflow period. The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the situation and provides updates as conditions warrant. Contact for Media Relations, Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development: Tel: 250 356-7506 Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level. Links: Home of River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations CLEVER Model 10-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods COFFEE Model 5-day Forecasts of Discharges and Return Periods Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
