Flood Warnings and Advisories - River Forecast Centre - Province of British Columbia Skip to main content Skip to navigation Accessibility Statement River Forecast Centre Automated Snow Weather Station Data Automated Snow Weather Station Data ---> Home Environmental Protection & Sustainability Air, Land, & Water Link Link --> Flood Warnings and Advisories Flood Warning – Southern Vancouver Island (UPGRADED) Flood Watch - Eastern Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED) High Streamflow Advisory – Western and Central Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED) ISSUED: January 29, 2018 09:30 AM The River Forecast Centre is issuing the current advisories and warnings as of 9:30AM, Monday January 29th: Flood Warning (UPGRADED) - Southern Vancouver Island including the Chemainus River, Cowichan River, Koksilah River and surrounding areas Flood Watch - Eastern Vancouver Island including the Englishman and Bowser, Parksville, Qualicum, Nanaimo and surrounding areas High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) - Eastern Vancouver Island including Tsolum River, Oyster River and tributaries around Campbell River, Courtenay, and Comox High Streamflow Advisory - Central Vancouver Island including Sproat River, Somass River and tributaries and areas around Port Alberni High Streamflow Advisory - Western Vancouver Island including areas around Tofino and tributaries around Sutton Pass and surrounding areas Heavy rain has impacted rivers on Vancouver Island over the past day. Heaviest rainfall amounts have been on Western Vancouver Island, Eastern Vancouver Island (around Parksville, Qualicum and north to Courtenay) and Southern Vancouver Island (around Lake Cowichan, Duncan and north to Nanaimo). Rivers have been rising rapidly in response to this rainfall. A summary of conditions as of 9:00AM include: Englishman River near Parksville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08HB002) peaked earlier this morning at approximately 490 m3/s (approaching a 10-year return period flow). Rainfall this morning may slow the rate of decline through Monday Tsolum River near Courtenay (08HB011) peaked earlier this morning at approximately 120 m3/s (below a 2-year flow). Flows are expected to remain elevated on Monday, but significant additional rises are not expected Sproat River near Port Alberni (08HB008) is flowing at 150 m3/s and slowly rising. The estimated flows on the Somass River are 460 m3/s, and rising at approximately 10 m3/s per hour. Flows are expected to continue to rise through Monday, with a forecasted peak later in the day of approximately 500-600 m3/s, or slightly higher if significant additional rainfall occurs this morning Koksilah River at Cowichan Station (08HA003) is flowing at approximately 200 m3/s (2-year flow) and slowly rising. Additional rises are expected through mid-day Monday Cowichan River near Duncan (08HA011) is flowing at approximately 440 m3/s (10-20 year flow). This is approaching 2009 flood levels. Continued rises are expected through Monday. Additional rainfall is forecast through Monday, however rainfall rates and amounts are generally forecast to be much less than was observed on Sunday. The River Forecast Centre will continue to monitor conditions and update this advisory as conditions warrant. Levels of Warnings/Advisories: High Streamflow Advisory: River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible. This is the lowest level of advisory. Flood Watch: River levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas adjacent to affected rivers may occur. This is the intermediate level of advisory. Flood Warning: River levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result. This is the highest level of advisory.. Links: River Forecast Centre Current Streamflow Conditions and Flood Forecast Modeling Map of Current Streamflow Return Periods for All WSC Stations Back to page of Flood Warnings and Advisories Home About this site Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility Copyright Contact Us
