Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Chilcotin (UPGRADED)
ISSUED: 12:00 PM July 13, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

    •    Chilcotin Region including the Chilcotin River, Chilko River and tributaries

The combination of very warm temperatures in late June and moderate rainfall in early July
resulted in high flows for the Chilcotin Region. River levels peaked between July 4th to July 8th,
and have risen over the past 24 hours in response to warm weather. Specifically, the Chilcotin
River near Hanceville Water Survey of Canada gage (08MB012) has risen to 433 m3/s (a 10-20
year return period flow); the Chilko River near Redstone (08MA001) and Taseko River at Outlet
of Taseko Lakes (08MA003) are both flowing at 2-5 year return period flows. Current forecasts
indicate the potential for continued recession over the coming days; however, the river remains
vulnerable to precipitation as it is running at high flows for this time of year. Additionally,
because flows in the region remain relatively high for this time of year due to cooler spring
temperatures and delayed snowmelt, rivers are vulnerable to extreme rainfall later in the
summer, such as what occurred in 2019.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
