Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Northern and Western Vancouver Island (Upgrade)
High Streamflow Advisory – Rest of Vancouver Island (Maintain)
Issued: 1:00 PM March 15, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island

   •   Southern Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is beginning to impact Vancouver Island today (Sunday), bringing
widespread precipitation across the region. Current conditions are relatively cool, with lower
freezing levels allowing much of the early precipitation to fall as snow at mid to higher
elevations. This is temporarily limiting runoff during the early stages of the event.

Beginning Sunday night and into Monday, temperatures are forecast to rise and freezing levels
are expected to increase significantly as warmer Pacific air moves into the region. Precipitation
is expected to transition to heavy rainfall across much of Vancouver Island, with the initial
heaviest precipitation focused along the northern and western portions of the island.

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued weather warnings including heavy rainfall
across parts of Vancouver Island.

This transition to warmer temperatures and higher freezing levels may produce rain-on-snow
runoff, particularly at mid elevations where new snowfall from the early phase of the storm
may quickly transition to rainfall. Lower elevation snowpacks that developed during recent
cooler weather may also contribute to additional runoff as temperatures rise.

Forecast models indicate the potential for multiple pulses of precipitation through the coming
week, which may prolong elevated runoff conditions across the region.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River Conditions:

Rivers across Vancouver Island are expected to begin rising through Sunday and Monday as
precipitation intensifies and freezing levels rise.

On northern and western Vancouver Island, where the heaviest precipitation is expected, rivers
and tributaries may experience rapid rises beginning Monday and continuing into early next
week. Flooding impacts are possible in low-lying areas, particularly where intense rainfall
coincides with rising freezing levels and rain-on-snow runoff.

Across the remainder of Vancouver Island, rivers are expected to rise to elevated levels.
Localized high flows may occur based on the location of heaviest precipitation and conditions
could escalate if heavier rainfall persists through the week.
Smaller rivers and streams throughout Vancouver Island may respond quickly to intense rainfall
and could experience rapid rises during periods of heavy precipitation.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for challenging driving
conditions and potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never drive
through flood waters or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
