Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Central Coast (Upgrade)
High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast (Maintain)
Issued: 1:00 PM March 15, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Central Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Bella Coola, Rivers Inlet,
       and other coastal communities

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries along the outer coast and inland areas including Prince
       Rupert, Kitimat, Terrace, and surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is beginning to impact coastal British Columbia today (Sunday), bringing
widespread precipitation to the North and Central Coast. Initial precipitation is occurring with
relatively cool temperatures and lower freezing levels, resulting in snow accumulation at higher
elevations and limiting runoff during the early stages of the event.

Through Sunday night and into Monday, freezing levels are forecast to rise and precipitation is
expected to transition to heavy rainfall across much of the region. This transition to warmer
temperatures and rising freezing levels may produce rain-on-snow runoff at mid to upper
elevations, which could further increase runoff into rivers and streams. Environment and
Climate Change Canada has issued yellow level warnings for both heavy rainfall and winter
storm conditions across parts of the Central Coast.

Current forecasts indicate that multiple pulses of precipitation may impact the region through
early to mid-week. Event precipitation totals from Sunday through Wednesday are forecast in
the range of 100–200 mm for many coastal locations including Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Bella
Bella, Bella Coola, and Kingcome Inlet.

The combination of increasing rainfall intensity and rising freezing levels into Monday is
expected to increase runoff across the region, particularly in the Central Coast where the
heaviest precipitation is forecast.

River Conditions:
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Rivers across the North Coast and Central Coast are expected to begin rising through Sunday
and Monday as rainfall increases and freezing levels rise.

On the Central Coast, where the heaviest precipitation is expected, rivers and smaller
tributaries may experience rapid rises beginning Monday and continuing into early next week.
Flooding impacts are possible in low-lying areas, particularly where intense rainfall persists or
multiple pulses of rainfall occur.

On the North Coast, rivers are expected to rise to elevated levels through early next week, with
localized high flows possible.

Smaller rivers and streams throughout the region may respond quickly to periods of intense
rainfall.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for challenging driving
conditions and potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never drive
through flood waters or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
