Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED: Flood Watch – North Coast
ISSUED: 12:00 PM November 20, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgraded to a Flood Watch for:

    •   North Coast including Haida Gwaii and areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley
        Bay, Kemano and surrounding areas

An atmospheric river is set to make landfall onto the North Coast today (Nov 20th), following a
mild winter storm that began yesterday (Friday, Nov 19th). The transition from the winter storm
to atmospheric river means a change to warm and wet conditions through to Monday,
especially for areas including Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and Haida Gwaii. Total rainfall amounts
across the event could reach 200-300 mm, with highest amounts expected on the outer coast
between Prince Rupert and Ocean Falls, and decreasing amounts moving inland. Snowmelt at
low-to-mid elevations is expected to add to runoff. Inland areas, including the Bulkley Valley,
are not currently forecast to receive significant rainfall, however if the system pushes across the
Coast Mountains the region could also experience higher flows from rain and snowmelt. Right
now there is a high likelihood of this event occurring, with medium confidence as to rainfall
intensity and amounts as well as associated impacts. Current hydrologic forecasts indicate the
potential for coastal streams to reach 2-5 year return periods beginning later today (Saturday)
and lasting into early next week. Coastal streams are currently demonstrating the highest
potential impacts, however impacts into the interior will depend on how much of this system
falls as rain as it moves east.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
