Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Quesnel River (MAINTAINED)
Flood Watch – Thompson River, South Thompson (MAINTAINED), Shuswap
(ENDED)
High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson (DOWNGRADED), Nicola
ISSUED: 11:30AM June 26, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

   •   Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

   •   South Thompson River (including Shuswap Lake)

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watch for:

   •   Other tributaries in the Cariboo Mountains west of Quesnel, excluding the Quesnel
       River (Flood Warning above)

   •   Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to, or maintaining, a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

   •   Nicola River

Rivers have peaked from rainfall earlier in the week. For most rivers in the region, peak river
levels that have been observed this year have occurred over the past day or two. Snowmelt
flood risks may be subsiding as snow coverage across watersheds has become diminished.
While rivers remain full and at capacity, they will continue to remain vulnerable to additional
runoff, particularly from rainfall. Over the coming week, a transition from the hot weekend
weather towards an unsettled pattern on Tuesday may lead to rainfall in the headwaters and a
period of rising river levels in the middle of the week.
Ministry of Forests

Current conditions and outlook as of 10:30AM Sunday include:

    •    North Thompson River at McLure (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08LB064) has dropped from a
         peak of 2310 m3/s (between 5-year and 10-year flow) to a current flow of 1800 m3/s (below a 2-
         year flow). There is the potential for rising flows in the middle of this coming week from rainfall

    •    South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at approximately 1300 m3/s (10-year flow)
         and has levelled off. While snowmelt runoff is expected to have reached a maximum for the
         year, the river is expected to remain elevated this week, and will remain vulnerable to additional
         inputs from rainfall that could lead to additional river rises

    •    Thompson River at Kamloops (08LF023) reached a peak level yesterday of 7.78 m and has since
         dropped to 15-20 cm. While snowmelt runoff is expected to have reached a maximum for the
         year, the river is expected to remain elevated this week, and will remain vulnerable to additional
         inputs from rainfall that could lead to additional river rises if flows come back up in the North
         and South Thompson tributaries

    •    Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001) is flowing at 580 m3/s (20-year flow) and has experienced a
         slight easing in levels over the past day. While snowmelt runoff is expected to have reached a
         maximum for the year, the river is expected to remain elevated this week, and will remain
         vulnerable to additional inputs from rainfall that could lead to additional river rises

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
