Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Quesnel River
Flood Watch – South Thompson
High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson, Nicola, Thompson River
(DOWNGRADED)
ISSUED: 1:15PM July 6, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

      Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

      South Thompson River (including Shuswap Lake)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

      Nicola River

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

Rivers in the Central Interior remain relatively high for this time of year due to delayed seasonal
snowmelt and additional contribution from ongoing precipitation events. Environment and
Climate Change Canada currently has an Orange Weather Notification for potential heavy
showers over the Cariboo region beginning tomorrow (July 7) through to Friday (July 8) with
precipitation totals possibly reaching 20 to 40 mm. Concern is high for rivers and creeks in the
Cariboo region as flows have remained very high over the past several weeks. The most
northerly sections of the North Thompson may be clipped with the heaviest showers and it’s
possible for Blue River to rise again. Other regions of the Central Interior are likely to receive
totals up to 5 to 20 mm based on localised showers or thunderstorms.

The Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge has been steadily receding towards a 2‐
year return period flow and is downgraded to a High Streamflow Advisor from a Flood Watch.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
