Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Sumas (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 10:30 AM December 13, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Sumas River

Weather Synopsis:

Rainfall has eased over the past two days, allowing for a reprieve on additional input to runoff
in the Sumas basin. A series of storm events is expected starting later Saturday evening and
extending through next week. Current weather forecasts have rainfall building on Sunday and
into Monday, with heavy rainfall possible over Monday. Environment and Climate Change
Canada have issued a Special Weather Statement for the Fraser Valley, highlighting concerns
for the weather pattern and increased vulnerability on the landscape to severe weather given
recent rainfall, ground saturation and current flooding.

River Conditions:

Flows on the Nooksack River peaked through Everson on Thursday afternoon. River levels have
since been dropping, and overflow from the Nooksack River into the Sumas River drainage
ceased late on Thursday night.

Flows on the Sumas River near Huntingdon (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08MH029) reached
peak levels on Thursday afternoon. Levels have been slowly receding, and as of Saturday
morning (9:30AM) have dropped approximately 25cm from peak level. Continued slow declines
in flood level are expected through Saturday and Sunday.

areas. Forecasts from the Northwest River Forecast Center for the Nooksack River are not
currently indicating a potential for another overflow event into the Sumas River. Local inflow
into the Sumas River is expected to increase from Sunday through Tuesday, with the potential
for slowing of floodwater retreat, and the potential for additional rises in levels along the
Sumas River. Ground saturation across the watershed can lead to increased surface runoff and
increased vulnerability of the landscape to this rainfall event.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

Review personal flood emergency plans and be prepared to implement if needed. Information
on local flood response, including evacuation alerts and orders, is available from local
governments and First Nations.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
