Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Courtenay River, Tsolum River and Dove Creek
Flood Watch – Somass River (Port Alberni) and Englishman River
High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii, Vancouver Island, South Coast
Issued: 01:25 PM January 30, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing/maintain a Flood Warning for:

   •   Courtenay River (new)
   •   Tsolum River (new)
   •   Dove Creek
The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Somass River (Port Alberni)
   •   Englishman River
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Vancouver Island (except the above regions)

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   South Coast

Weather Synopsis:

A series of storms has moved into coastal British Columbia and expected to continue over the
next a few days. Prolonged periods of moderate to heavy rain are possible, with three-day
rainfall amounts of 60 to 200+mm forecasted, with the highest rainfall amounts expected over
West Vancouver Island and higher terrain over Howe Sounds and the North Shore Mountains.
Temperatures are expected to remain seasonally warm, with freezing levels rising to 1500 to
2000 m. Additional runoff from snowmelt is expected in areas with snow on the ground.

River Conditions:

Based on the current hydrological modeling, streamflows in the above regions are expected to
rise significantly today into tomorrow. Very localized heavy rainfall has caused the river level in
the Dove Creek to rise significantly overnight and the Water Survey of Canaday hydrometric
station DOVE CREEK NEAR THE MOUTH (08HB075) has recorded a flow of 161 m3/s, which is a
flow greater than the 100-year return period. The flow is receding but still very high. The
TSOLUM RIVER NEAR COURTENAY (08HB011) is now 288 m3/s, which is a 20-year return period
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

flow, and further rise is expected. The water level recorded at the COURTENAY RIVER AT 5TH
AVENUE BRIDGE (08HB083) has increased by more than one metre since last midnight and now
at 4.185 m, a 10-year return period level.

The Englishman River is rising rapidly and expected to reach or pass the 150 m3/s level later
today. The Somass River is currently running at 717 m3/s, a flow between the 2- to 5-year
return period levels, and expected to rise higher due potential additional rainfall and the lake
effect.

For the other regions, localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-
snow melt runoff throughout the coastal region. High flows are expected in episodes
throughout Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, with the potential for both periods of increasing
and decreasing flows throughout the period. Heightened awareness of potential high flows is
prudent throughout this period. In lake-fed river systems, such as the Cowichan River and
Somass River, peak flows are expected later (Friday into Saturday) due to the cumulative impact
of rainfall. Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year range.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for driving conditions and
potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never through flood waters
or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
