Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Sumas (NEW), Coquihalla River
Flood Watch – Sea-to-Sky, North Shore, Howe Sound, Fraser Valley, Fraser
Canyon, Chilliwack River
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
UPDATE: 2:45PM November 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Sumas River and areas around the US Border (UPGRADED)

   •   Coquihalla River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Sea-to-Sky

   •   Howe Sound

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Fraser Valley including surrounding tributaries

   •   Fraser Canyon tributaries, including tributaries around Hope

   •   Chilliwack River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Metro Vancouver

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 100-140mm range
through Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, and Sunshine Coast; 90-160mm in the Fraser
Valley – East, Fraser Canyon and areas around Hope and Harrison Lake.

Environment and Climate Change Canada have continued rainfall warnings in effect across the
region. Rainfall is expected is expected to taper off on Monday afternoon.

Rivers have risen rapidly from rainfall since yesterday. Current conditions include:
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
   •   Chilliwack River above Slesse Creek (08MH103) have reached 440 m3/s (bewteen a 20-
       year and 50-year flow). Additional increases are possible through the day on Monday

   •   Chilliwack River at Vedder Crossing (08MH001) reached a high of approximately 490
       m3/s overnight and has dropped through Monday morning. Additional rises are
       anticipated on Monday afternoon

   •   Coquihalla River above Alexandra Creek (08MF068) is flowing at approximately 550
       m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow) and has leveled over the past few hours.
       Additional rises are possible through the day on Monday

   •   Stawamus River at Highway 99 (08GA076) is flowing at 85 m3/s (between a 2-year and
       5-year flow) and rising at approximately 15 m3/s per hour

   •   The Nooksack River at Cedarville (USGS gauge NRKW1) is currently at a record level of
       approximately 15 feet. The river has breached its banks and is anticipated to be spilling
       water into low-lying terrain around the Sumas River drainage

Rivers through the region are expected to remain high through Monday and may persist into
the evening in areas. Lower reaches of rivers may reach peak levels later Monday or overnight.
Low-lying areas and areas with poorer drainage will take longer to drain surface water.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html



The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
