Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Chilliwack River (maintain)
Flood Watch – North Shore Mountains (downgrade), Lower Fraser tributaries, South Coast,
Vancouver Island, Kingcome River (maintain)
High Streamflow Advisory – Lillooet River and tributaries around Pemberton (downgrade)
Issued: 1:00 PM December 16, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Chilliwack River and tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Tributaries of the Lower Fraser including the Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon, and North
       Shore (downgrade) and Coast Mountains (see separate Flood Warning for the Sumas
       River)

   •   South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky

   •   Vancouver Island

   •   Kingcome River and nearby basins

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   The Lillooet River and tributaries around Pemberton

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Warning for:

   •   North Shore Mountains (now Flood Watch)

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers and storms continue to impact British Columbia this week.
Yesterday’s storm brought heavy rainfall over Vancouver Island and areas of the Central and
South Coast. Three-day precipitation totals so far range from up to 200 to 400 mm for western
Vancouver Island, 30 to 150 mm for eastern Vancouver Island, 200 to 275 mm for the North
Shore mountains, and 50 to 120 mm for the Sea-to-Sky & Pemberton regions. Temperatures
increased for the Sunday-Monday event, particularly in south-west BC, with freezing levels in
the 2000-2500m range resulting in snowmelt and rain-on-snow across the region with some
automated snow gauges losing 30-50 mm of snow water equivalent.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Another system is bringing more heavy precipitation to Vancouver Island and the South Coast
today. An additional 50-80 mm is possible in the South Coast and into the Fraser Valley.
Freezing levels are dropping and heavy snow is expected at higher elevations and mountain
passes. Another system is expected to arrive on Thursday and may bring additional coastal rain
and mountain snow.

River Conditions:

Active weather over the next week or so is expected to create a prolonged period of
heightened flood hazard across the B.C. coast. The heavy rain and snowmelt on Sunday and
Monday are keeping streamflows high, especially larger lake systems which take longer to
recede. With the additional precipitation today, we can expect some rivers to rise again, mainly
for the Fraser Valley, South Coast, and Vancouver Island. Peaks are not expected to be high as
yesterday’s flows with less precipitation and cooler temperatures, but such wet antecedent
conditions add uncertainty to how high rivers will rise. The upper portions of the Chilliwack
River are the most sensitive to additional precipitation as the Chilliwack River at the outlet of
Chilliwack Lake (08MH016) is currently at 10-year return period.

Flows on regulated rivers, for example downstream of dam facilities, may be influenced by flow
management and can vary from flow forecasts for natural systems.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
