Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Stikine River, Tuya River
Issued: 8:30 AM June 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

        Stikine River and tributaries

        Tuya River

The snowpack in the Stikine region was well above normal this season and is currently melting
rapidly. The automated snow weather stations are melting at 15 to 40 mm snow water
equivalent daily. The Tuya River near Telegraph Creek (08CD001) is increasing quickly and
currently flows at 540 m3/s (10‐year flow) and still rising. The Stikine River at Telegraph Creek
(08CE001) is flowing at 1910 m3/s (between 1‐year and 2‐year flow) and is rising rapidly. The
Stikine River at Telegraph Creek historically peaks several days after the Tuya River near
Telegraph Creek, so increases are expected into the weekend. Other rivers and tributaries in
the region are expected to have similar increases.

The updated CLEVER model for Wednesday June 2, 2021 will be available later this morning.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
