Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Englishman River (UPGRADE)
Flood Watch: Vancouver Island, South Coast, Lower Fraser
High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii, North Coast, Central Coast, Lillooet River and
Tributaries
Issued: 7:15 AM January 12, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Englishman River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Central Vancouver Island including areas around Port Alberni

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island including the Englishman River and areas around Courtenay,
       Bowser, Qualicum and Parksville (except Englishman River at Flood Warning)

   •   Southern Vancouver Island including the Chemainus River, Cowichan River and
       surrounding areas

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

   •   South Coast - Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, and North Shore Mountains

   •   Lower Fraser including areas around the Fraser Valley and Metro Vancouver (UPGRADE)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   North Coast including areas around Kitimat, Prince Rupert and surrounding areas

   •   Central Coast including Bella Coola, Kingcome and outer coastal areas

   •   South Coast – remaining areas including the Sea-to-Sky

   •   Lower Fraser – Lillooet River and tributaries around Pemberton

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is impacting coastal British Columbia. Prolonged periods of
moderate to heavy rain are expected, along with warmer temperatures and additional runoff
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

from rain-on-snow melt. Environment and Climate Change have rainfall warnings in effect
across regions, with forecast rainfall amounts Saturday through Monday of 100 to 200 mm on
Western Vancouver Island, 90 to 135 mm on Inland Vancouver Island, 75 to 100 mm on Eastern
Vancouver Island, 75 to 150 mm in the North Shore and 70 to 100 mm in the Fraser Valley.
Temperatures are expected to rise into next week, with the potential for significant snowmelt
(25 to 100 mm) from yesterday through Tuesday, particularly on mid-elevation terrain on
Vancouver Island, Sunshine Coast and North Shore Mountains/Howe Sound.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-snow melt runoff
throughout the coastal region. Peak river levels are expected through Monday on Vancouver
Island and the South Coast. Current flows on the Englishman River have reached or exceeded
flood level (360 m3/s at the WSC gauge). Flows may reach or exceed 5-year to 10-year flows in
areas under Flood Watch, and 2-year to 5-year flows in other areas. Expected impacts include
the potential for road washouts, localized flooding, overbank flow, swift water hazards and
landslides. Extra vigilance is appropriate through the weekend and into Monday, with the
expectation that this weather pattern could lead to escalating flood hazard.

Stay away from riverbanks. Do not drive through flooded roads and washouts. Check road
conditions in advance on DriveBC and be prepared for travelling conditions. Review personal
flood response plans and be prepared to take appropriate action.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
