Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – West Vancouver Island (UPGRADE)
Flood Watch Central Coast, South Coast, Lower Fraser Tributaries, Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Interior Mountains
Issued: 11:00 AM October 19, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   West Vancouver Island including rivers around Tofino, Bamfield and Port Renfrew and
       surrounding areas (UPGRADE)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River and Owikeeno River

   •   South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and tributaries
       around Sechelt, Squamish, Whistler and surrounding areas

   •   Lower Fraser Tributaries including the Lillooet River and rivers around Pemberton,
       Metro-Vancouver, Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley

   •   Vancouver Island (except West Vancouver Island)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries around Stewart, Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert, and other coastal communities

   •   Interior Mountains including tributary rivers in the West Kootenay (NEW), Upper Fraser,
       North Thompson, South Thompson, Cariboo Mountains, and Upper Columbia


Weather Synopsis:

A system of atmospheric rivers is impacting coastal British Columbia. Total rainfall amounts
observed since yesterday have ranged from 70mm to 280mm on West Vancouver Island, 40mm
to 90mm elsewhere on Vancouver Island, 20mm to 60mm on the Central Coast, 50mm to 140mm
in the Howe Sound and North Shore Mountains and 20mm to 60mm in other areas of the South
Coast and Lower Mainland.

At higher elevation some of the precipitation has fallen as snow and is expected to melt later on
Saturday as warming temperatures and rising freezing levels contribute to rain-on-snow.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Rain is expected to persist through Saturday into Sunday across the region, with the potential for
a slight easing later Saturday before another period of heavier rain occurs overnight and on
Sunday morning. Weather forecasts continue to focus the heaviest rainfall towards the south-
west corner of Vancouver Island and across to Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, and Fraser
Valley. Continued heavy rain can be expected in these areas. Continued moderate to heavy rain
is forecast for adjacent regions.

In the Interior ranges of British Columbia, a mix of higher elevation snow and lower elevation rain
is expected to continue Saturday.



River Conditions:

Rapid rises in river levels were experienced on Friday and overnight into Saturday. As of Saturday
morning (9:30AM) the highest flows have been concentrated around western Vancouver Island,
with observed streamflow reaching the 2-year to above a 20-year flow in rivers in the region.
Other areas have observed streamflow conditions in the 2-year flow level and below.

On-going hazards for high flows and potential flooding are expected to persist on Saturday and
into Sunday. The hazards are most pronounced on West Vancouver Island and into Howe Sound,
the North Shore Mountains and Fraser Valley. Adjacent areas continue to have the potential for
flooding during this period, particularly if the atmospheric river stalls or if spillover occurs from
regions with the highest forecast rainfall.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
