Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Sproat and Somass Rivers
High Streamflow Advisory - Lillooet River, Squamish River, Vancouver Island, South Coast
ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory - Lower Fraser tributaries and Central Coast
Issued: 12:00 PM February 2, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Sproat and Somass Rivers

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lillooet River and tributaries (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Squamish River including tributaries including Cheakamus River (DOWNGRADED)

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky and North Shore
       Mountains (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Vancouver Island (DOWNGRADED)

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser Valley – North including tributaries from Port Coquitlam to Harrison (ENDED)

   •   Fraser Valley – East, including the Sumas River and the Fraser Canyon tributaries
       (ENDED)

   •   Central Coast (ENDED)

Weather Synopsis:

Rainfall has eased through the region, with drier weather and cooling temperatures expected
into the weekend.

River Conditions:

Runoff from rainfall and snow melt has eased in most areas. Flows remain high through the
South Coast and on Vancouver Island. In most areas, flows are expected to continue to recede
through Thursday and into the weekend.

On Sproat River and Somass River, attenuated flow from Sproat Lake is expected to lead to
increasing flows on Thursday.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
