Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE – Flood Watch – Lower Nicola River (NEW)
Flood Warning – Similkameen River, Tulameen River, Coldwater River
ISSUED: 7:15AM November 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Nicola River from Merritt to Spences Bridge

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Similkameen River

   •   Tulameen River and tributaries

   •   Coldwater River

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 50-185mm range across
the Coquihalla, upper Coldwater and Tulameen River watersheds.

Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is adding additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers have risen rapidly today. Current conditions include:

   •   Tulameen River at Princeton (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NL024) has a slowed
       rate of rise over the past hour and is currently at 4.1m on the gauge. This is beyond the
       flow estimate range for this station is estimated to be beyond a 50-100 year return
       period flow

   •   Tulameen River near Vuich Creek (08NL071) reached 4.35m gauge height earlier on
       Monday morning and has experienced a slight decrease over the past few hours. This is
       beyond the flow estimate range for this station and is estimated to be beyond a 50-100
       year return period flow
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
    •    Coldwater River at Merritt (08LG010) is at 3.1m gauge height. This is beyond the flow
         estimate range for this station and is estimated to be beyond a 50-100 year return
         period flow. Continued rises are expected through the morning on Monday

    •    Similkameen River at Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at 820 m3/s (approaching a 50-year
         flow) and rising. Additional rises are expected through the morning and potentially the
         afternoon on Monday

    •    Nicola River near Spences Bridge (08LG006) is flowing at 270 m3/s (approximately 5-
         year flow) and rising at approximately 30 m3/s per hour. Additional rises are expected
         into the afternoon or later Monday and may reach or exceed 400 m3/s (approximately
         an additional 50 cm of rise at the gauge).

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
