Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Lillooet River (NEW), Squamish River/Cheakamus River
Flood Watch – Sumas River, South Coast and Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser tributaries and Central Coast
Issued: 10:00 AM January 30, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to or maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Lillooet River and tributaries

   •   Squamish River including tributaries including Cheakamus River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Sumas River

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky and North Shore
       Mountains (except Squamish River above)

   •   Fraser Valley – North including tributaries from Port Coquitlam to Harrison

   •   Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser Valley – East (except Sumas River) and Fraser Canyon tributaries

Weather Synopsis:

A series of potent storms is impacting coastal British Columbia. Initial storms have delivered 80
to 300 mm through most of the region since Friday, with 40 to 130 mm falling in the past 24
hours. The next round of rainfall is expected to start overnight Tuesday and through
Wednesday. Temperatures are expected to warm during this period, and snowmelt at lower
and mid-elevations will provide additional runoff to rivers.

River Conditions:

Flows remain high through the region as runoff from yesterday’s rainfall and snowmelt works
its way through river systems.

On the Squamish River, flows in the headwaters (Elaho River) continue to rise. Current flow on
the Squamish River near Brackendale (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08GA022) is at 2000 m3/s
(above a 5-year flow), and expected to see small additional rises through Tuesday morning
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

before easing in Tuesday afternoon. Additional rainfall on Wednesday may lead to on-going
flood hazard. Flows on tributary channels, including the Cheakamus River, are also expected to
exceed bankfull flow from inflow and reservoir spilling.

Flows on the Lillooet River near Pemberton (WSC 08MG005) is flowing at 715 m3/s (5-year to
10-year flow), and is expected to see small additional rises through Tuesday morning and
afternoon.

Flows continue to rise on the Sproat and Somass Rivers, and on the Cowichan River at Cowichan
Lake. Continued rises are expected on Tuesday.

While some regions may experience declining flows on Tuesday, on-going hazards for increased
flows is expected on Wednesday and Thursday as the final atmospheric river brings continued
rainfall and snowmelt to the region.

There remains uncertainty over the amounts of rainfall that will occur and the locations of
heaviest rainfall. Elevated flood hazards may be possible in nearby areas, particularly if the
storm tracks or patterns change from what is currently forecast.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
