Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Similkameen (Princeton and upstream), Tulameen
High Streamflow Advisory – Coldwater, Central Coast, South Coast, Vancouver Island
Issued: 7:45 AM December 11, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Similkameen River tributaries including headwater tributaries at and upstream of
       Princeton

   •   Tulameen River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Ashnola River (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Coldwater River

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River, Wannock River and surrounding basins

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains and Metro Vancouver

   •   Vancouver Island

Rainfall has eased through the region, however rivers are still responding to runoff from rain
and snowmelt.

Flows continue to rise to very high levels along tributaries of the Similkameen River at and
upstream of Princeton, including the Pasayten River, upper Similkameen, and Tulameen Rivers,
with current observed flows (7AM) in the 10-year to 100-year range. Additional rises are
expected this morning at Princeton.

Flows in other areas have largely crested for this event, however they remain high.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

Review personal flood emergency plans and be prepared to implement if needed. Information
on local flood response, including evacuation alerts and orders, is available from local
governments and First Nations.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
