Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Quesnel River
Flood Watch – Thompson River, Shuswap, North Thompson, South Thompson
(MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory –Nicola
ISSUED: 7:30AM June 22, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge (UPGRADED)

   •   Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

   •   South Thompson River

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

   •   Other tributaries in the Cariboo Mountains west of Quesnel, excluding the Quesnel
       River (Flood Warning above)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Nicola River

Rivers in the region are flowing very high for this time year and are extremely vulnerable to a
additional runoff at this point. A potential long-lasting rain event in the headwaters of the
South Thompson, North Thompson and Cariboo Mountains is underway and expected to last
into early Thursday. Uncertainty remains high for rainfall totals and spatial extent, with current
forecasts indicating the highest rainfall amounts (40+mm) being focused in areas of the North
Thompson, South Thompson, Cariboo Mountains and Upper Columbia watersheds. Over the
past 24 hours, 10-20mm of rainfall has already been observed in areas of the Cariboo
Mountains, and rivers are beginning to experience rapid rises. There continues to be risks of
significant flooding through the region from this rainfall event.
Ministry of Forests

Warming temperatures over the weekend and into next week will lead to accelerated
snowmelt rates where snow remains, however there remains uncertainty over the extent to
which the available remaining snowpack will be able to fuel significant additional rises to rivers
next week. At present, the key weather of concern for flooding in the region is the immediate
rainfall pattern today to Thursday.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
