Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Fraser Valley East including Sumas River and Chilliwack River (UPGRADE)
Issued: 10:00 AM December 10, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •    Sumas River, including the potential for spillover from the Nooksack River

   •    Lower Fraser tributaries including the Chilliwack River, Skagit River, Coquihalla River and
        other areas of the Fraser Valley around Abbotsford, Chilliwack, Hope and east through
        Manning Park

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the United States Pacific Northwest and the south
and central coasts of British Columbia through this week. The most recent storm started
overnight Tuesday/Wednesday and is expected to continue through the day on Wednesday.
While the highest precipitation amounts for these storms are expected for Washington and
Oregon, there is the possibility of heavier amounts moving into British Columbia. Environment
and Climate Change Canada have issued orange level rainfall warnings through the region,
identifying total precipitation amounts today 80 to 110 mm in the Lower Mainland, and
potentially above 110 mm over higher terrain south and east of Hope out towards Manning
Park.

Temperatures are rising through Wednesday, with freezing levels forecasted to rise to 2500 m
elevation. Shallow snowpack is being observed around the mid and upper elevations of the
region, with conditions to produce rain-on-snow and additional streamflow runoff.

River Conditions:

River levels are elevated from rainfall earlier in the week, and are now rising further in response
to the ongoing storm. Current observed streamflow at real-time river gauges is between the 1-
year and 2-year return period flow. Rivers are expected to rise through Wednesday in response
to heavy rain and snowmelt, with peak levels forecasted later Wednesday, and into Thursday
for larger river systems.

Heaver rainfall south of the border has generated flood potential for the Nooksack River. The
US National Weather Service (Washington State) has issued a Flood Warning for the Nooksack
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River. The most recently available modelling from the Northwest River Forecast Center (NOAA)
are forecasting a crest of 148.48 ft at the Nooksack River at North Cedarville gauge; flows at this
level will spill floodwater from the Nooksack River near Everson into the Sumas River drainage.
Peak levels at the Cedarville gauge during the November 2021 flooding was estimated at 150.35
ft. While the current forecast is below this level, similar levels as observed in 2021 is a lower-
likelihood, but possible scenario for this event if rainfall amounts are at the higher end of the
current weather model forecasts materialize.

High flows are expected across the Fraser Valley, including the Chilliwack River and surrounding
areas. Flows may reach or exceed the 10-year to 20-year return period range or higher.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

Review personal flood emergency plans and be prepared to implement if needed. Information
on local flood response, including evacuation alerts and orders, is available from local
governments and First Nations.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
