Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Quesnel River
Flood Watch – Thompson River, South Thompson
High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson, Nicola
ISSUED: 10:00AM June 27, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

    •    Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

    •    Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

    •    South Thompson River (including Shuswap Lake)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
         River

    •    Nicola River

Rivers have peaked from rainfall earlier in the week. For most rivers in the region, peak river
levels that have been observed this year have occurred over the past few days. Snowmelt flood
risks may be subsiding as snow coverage across watersheds has become diminished. While
rivers remain full and at capacity, they will continue to remain vulnerable to additional runoff,
particularly from rainfall.

Rainfall and potential thundershowers over the region on Tuesday into Wednesday may lead to
increased runoff into rivers throughout the region. For rivers and lakes at or near capacity, this
may lead to additional rises in levels on Tuesday and Wednesday.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
