Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Chilcotin (UPGRADED)
Issued: 9:30am June 30, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

      Chilcotin, including Taseko River, Chilko River, Chilcotin River, Big Creek and
       surrounding tributaries draining from the Chilcotin Mountains

Extremely hot temperatures continue in the Chilcotin region and are triggering an
unprecedented amount of snowmelt at the higher elevations. Automated snow weather
stations (1300‐1600m) are snow‐free, however satellite analysis is indicating snow coverage in
upper elevations throughout the region. The few automated snow weather stations in the
province with remaining snowpack are melting at extraordinary rates of 50‐100 mm per day of
snow water equivalent. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) forecasts one more
extremely hot day today for the Chilcotin region. Temperatures are forecast to cool tomorrow
but remain well above normal for this time of year. Due to the delay of flows coming out of the
larger lake systems (e.g. Chilko Lake and Taseko Lakes) downstream rivers are forecast to
continue rising into the weekend.

The status of rivers in the region as of 09:00 PDT today:

      Chilcotin River near Hanceville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MB012) is currently
       flowing at approximately 414 m3/s (between 10 and 20‐year flow) and continues to rise.

      Taseko River near the outlet of Taseko Lake (08GE002) is estimated to be flowing at
       approximately 241 m3/s (20‐year flow) and continues to rise.

      The Chilko River near Redstone (08MA001) is currently flowing at approximately 463
       m3/s (between 20 and 50‐year) and continues to rise.

The updated CLEVER Model results will be available later this morning and can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
