Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Coquihalla (UPGRADED), Chilliwack River
(UPGRADED), Lower Fraser tributaries (UPGRADED), Sumas River and Sumas
Prairie (MAINTAINED)
Flood Watch – South Coast (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 7:45 AM December 1, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

      Coquihalla River

      Chilliwack River, and tributaries

      Lower Fraser Valley, including Kanaka Creek, areas near Haney, areas around Hope,
       and other tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

      Sumas River including Sumas Prairie and surround area

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for the South Coast including:

      Sea‐to‐Sky including areas around Squamish, Whistler and Pemberton

      Sunshine Coast

      Howe Sound

      North Shore Mountains

      Lower Mainland

The third in a series of atmospheric rivers has arrived to British Columbia. The initial pulse of
the system on Tuesday was relatively cool. The automated snow weather station (ASWS)
located for Chilliwack River (1D17P – 1621m elevation) accumulated nearly 40mm of snow
water equivalent on Tuesday. Overnight the temperatures at this site increased from below
freezing to +6.5°C. Snow has switched to rainfall and the Chilliwack ASWS has melted an
additional 30 mm of snow water equivalent since midnight. The Palisade Lake ASWS station
(3A09P – Elevation 900m) located in the North Shore mountains has melted 92mm of snow
water equivalent since Tuesday morning. Heavy rainfall is expected to continue with additional
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
totals of up to 50 mm in the Fraser Valley expected by this evening and 20 to 40 mm additional
for areas in the Sea‐to‐Sky corridor and the North Shore mountains. Rivers are beginning to
respond and rise rapidly. Kanaka Creek near Webster Corners (08MH076) has surpassed 133
m3/s and is above a 20‐year flow. Chilliwack River above Slesse Creek (08MH103) is currently at
371 m3/s (between 10‐year and 20‐year flow) and rising rapidly. The Coquihalla River above
Alexander Creek (08MF068) is rising rapidly and the last measurement at 7:05AM was 328 m3/s
(between 2‐year and 5‐year flow). It is expected to surpass the recent peak of approximately
400 m3/s that occurred on Monday within in the next few hours.

Rivers will continue to rise Wednesday, with peak flows expected late‐Wednesday and into
Thursday. Conditions are dynamic and changing rapidly. Stay tuned for further updates as
needed.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
