Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Sumas River (UPGRADE)
Flood Watch –South Coast and Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser tributaries and Central Coast
Issued: 1:30 PM January 28, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Sumas River (UPGRADE)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky and North Shore
       Mountains

   •   Fraser Valley – North including tributaries from Port Coquitlam to Harrison

   •   Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lower Fraser River tributaries including areas around Pemberton and Lillooet River
       tributaries, Fraser Valley – East (except Sumas River), and Fraser Canyon

Weather Synopsis:

A series of potent storms is impacting coastal British Columbia. Initial storms have delivered 50
to 160 mm through most of the region since Friday. Current forecasting is indicating the next
atmospheric river event to make contact later on Sunday through Monday, and another system
from Monday into Tuesday. The heaviest rainfall is currently forecast over West Vancouver
Island and the Coast Mountains. Temperatures are expected to warm during this period, and
snowmelt at lower and mid-elevations will provide additional runoff to rivers.

River Conditions:

Rivers have risen, and are expected to experience periods of high flows into next week. Peak
river levels are expected to occur in most areas on Sunday to Tuesday and may extend from
Tuesday to Thursday for lake-driven rivers. Hydrologic modelling is indicating potential flood
conditions to develop in areas with the heaviest rainfall. On Vancouver Island this includes the
Gold River, Salmon River, Somass/Sproat Rivers, Englishman River, Qualicum River, Chemainus
River, Cowichan River and other surrounding rivers. On the South Coast areas of concern for
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

flooding include: tributaries around Howe Sound including the Stawamus River, Squamish River,
Mamquam River, Cheakamus River; tributaries around the North Shore Mountains and Fraser
Valley north; and the Sunshine Coast. Other adjacent areas are currently forecast to have lower
peak flows (around 2-year flows).

High flows on the Nooksack River in Washington State have reached local flood stage, with
stage at the Nooksack River near Cedarville gauge reaching 147.2 ft at 12:30pm Sunday
morning. Water levels have reached 83.53 ft at the USGS gauge at Everson (12211200), and
spillover conditions into the Sumas River watershed near Everson are being observed. Spillover
into the Sumas River should be short-lived as upstream areas of the Nooksack River have
reached peak levels already and are now receding. The Nooksack River near Everson is
expected to recede later this afternoon. Flows in the Sumas River are not anticipated to pose a
hazard for flooding into Sumas Prairie at this time. Additional hazards for overflow may be
present from the incoming storm systems next week.

There remains uncertainty over the amounts of rainfall that will occur and the locations of
heaviest rainfall. Elevated flood hazards may be possible in nearby areas, particularly if the
storm tracks or patterns change from what is currently forecast.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
