Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

MAINTAINED – Flood Warning – Lower Nicola River, Coldwater River
DOWNGRADED – High Streamflow Advisory – Similkameen River, Tulameen
River,
UPDATED: 15:30 PM November 16, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining Flood Warnings for:

   •   Lower Nicola River

   •   Coldwater River

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading Flood Warnings to High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Similkameen River

   •   Tulameen River and tributaries

A significant atmospheric river made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia Saturday into Monday, bringing observed rainfall amounts across the Coquihalla,
upper Coldwater and Tulameen River watersheds of up to 250 mm of rain at high elevations.
The warmth of this system meant that precipitation fell as rain at most all elevations. Snowmelt
at low to mid elevations added to the incredible amount of rain that fell, augmenting the
unprecedented flows recorded through this event. A drop to near normal temperatures on
Monday, Nov 15th resulted in a shift from rain to snow for the region; such snowfall will taper
off into Tuesday evening (Nov 16th). This shift resulted in the recession of streams within the
Tulameen and Similkameen watersheds. However, many of the Water Survey of Canada gauges
within the Coldwater and Nicola watersheds have been impacted by historic flows and are not
reporting data; modeling as well as limited available data indicate the potential that flows
remain high within both watersheds.

   •   Coldwater River at Merritt (08LG010) is at 2.459 m gauge height (114 m3/s) and is receding. The
       downstream Coldwater River near Brookmere (08LG048) gage is not currently returning data.

   •   Tulameen River at Princeton (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NL024) is flowing at 259 m3/s (2-
       5 year return period) and is receding.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
    •    Similkameen River at Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at 480 m3/s (2-5 year return period) and is
         receding.

The short-term forecast indicates near seasonal temperatures and limited precipitation that will
facilitate continued recession of streams in the region.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
