Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Quesnel River (MAINTAINED), Blue River (ENDED)
Flood Watch – Thompson River, Shuswap, North Thompson, South Thompson
(MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory –Nicola
ISSUED: 2:45PM June 23, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Warning for:

   •   Blue River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

   •   Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

   •   South Thompson River

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

   •   Other tributaries in the Cariboo Mountains west of Quesnel, excluding the Quesnel
       River (Flood Warning above)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Nicola River

Rivers have been responding to on-going snowmelt and runoff from rainfall over the past two
days. At Blue River, levels reached peak levels yesterday and are now receding.

Warming temperatures over the weekend and into next week will lead to accelerated
snowmelt rates where snow remains, however there remains uncertainty over the extent to
which the available remaining snowpack will be able to fuel significant additional rises to rivers
next week. Following hot weather over the weekend, there may be a break-down of the high-
Ministry of Forests

pressure ridge with unsettled weather and severe thundershowers. This period may bring
additional flood risk next week.

Current conditions and outlook as of 2:30PM Thursday include:

    •    North Thompson River at McLure (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08LB064) is flowing at 2200
         m3/s (between 5-year and 10-year flow) with additional modest rises expected to continue
         through Thursday. Flows should see easing into the weekend

    •    South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at approximately 1250 m3/s (approaching a
         10-year flow) and rising. Continued rises are expected into the weekend, with flows in the 1300
         m3/s range over Saturday and Sunday

    •    Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001) is flowing at 580 m3/s (20-year flow) with rises up to around
         600 m3/s expected over the weekend

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
