Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Tulameen River, Coldwater River
ISSUED: 5:30PM November 14, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Warning:

   •   Tulameen River and tributaries

   •   Coldwater River

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 25-100mm range across
the Coquihalla, upper Coldwater and Tulameen River watersheds, including approximately
40mm of rainfall at the Blackwall Automated Snow Weather Station.

Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is adding additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers have risen rapidly today. Current conditions include:

   •   Tulameen River at Princeton (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NL024) is flowing at 296
       m3/s (approaching a 5-year flow) and rapidly rising at 50m3/s additional flow per hour

   •   Tulameen River near Vuich Creek (08NL071) is flowing at 201 m3/s (between a 20-year
       and 50-year return period) and rising at 45 m3/s per hour

   •   Coldwater River near Brookmere (08LG048) is flowing at 135 m3/s (between a 20-year
       and 50-year flow) and rising at 25 m3/s

Additional rises are expected overnight Sunday and into Monday with additional rainfall
forecasted. River levels are expected to ease later on Monday as rainfall rates ease.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
