Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Coquihalla River (UPGRADED)
Flood Watch – Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon, Chilliwack River, Englishman River
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island
UPDATE: 6:00PM November 14, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Coquihalla River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Fraser Valley including surrounding tributaries

   •   Fraser Canyon tributaries, including tributaries around Hope

   •   Chilliwack River

   •   Englishman River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Vancouver Island including tributaries around Port Alberni

   •   Howe Sound

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Sea-to-Sky

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   South Vancouver Island

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   East Vancouver Island

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 70-120mm range
through Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, and Sunshine Coast; 45-100mm in the Fraser
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Valley – East, Fraser Canyon and areas around Hope and Harrison Lake; 70-155mm around
Southern Vancouver Island; 45-70 mm around Eastern Vancouver Island; 110-155mm around
Western Vancouver Island.

Environment and Climate Change Canada have continued rainfall warnings in effect across the
region. Additional heavy rainfall is expected throughout the region overnight, and is expected
to taper off around Monday afternoon.

Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is expected to add additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers have risen rapidly from rainfall since yesterday. Additional rises are expected overnight
and potentially into mid-to-late day Monday. Current modelling is indicating the potential for
flows in the 2-year to 5-year range through most of the region, with locally higher amounts. On
the Englishman River, flows are already high and additional rainfall forecasted for today is
indicating the potential for the river to reach or exceed flood stage (approximately 280 m3/s at
the Water Survey of Canada gauge 08HB002 Englishman River near Parksville). Flows on the
Chilliwack River above Slesse Creek (08MH103) have reached 290 m3/s (between a 5-year and
10-year flow) and are expected to continue to rise overnight Sunday. Coquihalla River above
Alexandra Creek (08MF068) is flowing at approximately 520 m3/s (10-year flow) and rising.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
