Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Skeena River above Babine River (UPGRADED) – Flood Watch –
Skeena and Kispiox (MAINTAINED), Nass (UPGRADED), Kitsumkalum (NEW)
Driftwood (NEW) ‐ High Streamflow Advisory – Bulkley River (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 1:30 PM June 3, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

      Skeena River above Babine River

The River Forecast Centre is updating the Flood Watch for:

      Skeena River and Kispiox River and tributaries (MAINTAINED)

      Nass River and tributaries (UPGRADED)

      Kitsumkalum River (NEW)

      Driftwood River above Kastberg Creek (NEW)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Bulkley River and tributaries (MAINTAINED)

Rivers in the Skeena‐Nass region continue to rise from heavy rain earlier in the week. Additional
precipitation is forecast to arrive Friday to Saturday. Although the upcoming storm is not
expected to be as intense as the atmospheric river earlier in the week, the added rain and
continued melting mountain snowpack may cause additional rises in the rivers.

Status of some of the rivers in the region as of 13:00PDT:

      Skeena River above Babine River (08EB005) is flowing at 3,000 m3/s (between 10 and 20‐year
       flow) and forecast to continue rising into the weekend.

      Kispiox River near Hazelton (08EB004) is flowing at 438 m3/s (between 5 and 10‐year flow) and
       rising. It may continue to rise further if additional precipitation occurs.

      Skeena River at Usk (08EF001) is flowing at 6,100 m3/s (between 5 and 10‐year flow) and is
       expected to continue rising.

      Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) is flowing at 790 m3/s (2‐year flow).
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
        Nass River above Shumal Creek (08DB001) is flowing at 4,760 m3/s (between 5 and 10‐year flow)
         and rising.

        Kitsumkalum River below Alice Creek (08EG019) is flowing at 762 m3/s (nearing a 5‐year flow)
         and rising.

        Driftwood River above Kastberg Creek (08JD006) is flowing at 112 m3/s (between a 10 and 20‐
         year flow) and may be leveling off.

According to Environment and Climate Change Canada, coastal areas like Prince Rupert are
expected to receive 20‐60 mm of rain into the weekend; locally up to 75. For inland
communities like Stewart and Terrace approximately 20‐30 mm of rain is forecast for the event.
The rivers in the region are highly sensitive to any additional rain or rain‐on‐melting snow due
to their current high flow state.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
