Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

MAINTAINED - Flood Warning – Sumas
DOWNGRADED – High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon
MAINTAINED – High Streamflow Advisory - Chilliwack River
ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory - Coquihalla River

UPDATE: 17:30 PM November 17, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the following advisories:

   •   Sumas River and areas around the US Border – Flood Warning (MAINTAINED)

   •   Chilliwack River – High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED)

The Following advisories are downgraded:

   •   Fraser Valley – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Fraser Canyon – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)

The following advisories are ended:

   •   Coquihalla River – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED)

Most streams throughout the region have continued to recede following the November 13-15
atmospheric river event; those systems with lake or reservoir-fed watersheds are experiencing
a slower recession as water continues to move through these systems. Areas close to the
Sumas River continue to experience high water conditions.

Favourable weather conditions in the short term indicate that rivers and streams will continue
to recede and recover from this historic event.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
