Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Sumas (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED) – Fraser Valley (including Chilliwack River),
Fraser Canyon

UPDATE: 7:45 AM November 19, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the following advisories:

   •   Sumas River including Sumas Prairie and surround areas – Flood Warning
       (MAINTAINED)

The Following advisories are being ended:

   •   Fraser Valley, including the Chilliwack River – High Streamflow Advisory (ENDED)

River levels on tributary rivers through the region have receded to pre-event levels. Flows in
lake-fed watersheds are slower to recede but have dropped below levels of concern.

Flooding persists in the Sumas River and Sumas Prairie areas. For detailed information of flood
areas, please see the City of Abbotsford Emergency Alerts Website. Flood levels may fluctuate
over coming days, due to drainage operations, additional rainfall and runoff from local
tributaries, or from catastrophic failure of infrastructure. Showers over the next few days are
expected to be light, with limited contribution to flood level expected. Longer range rainfall is
possible into next week, and is continuing to be monitored for potential impacts to flood level.
Overflow from the Nooksack River is not expected to contribute to the Sumas River drainage
over the coming days, and the Nooksack River has dropped below flood level. Details and
forecasts for the Nooksack River are available from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration’s Northwest River Forecast Centre Website.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
