Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED – Flood Warning – Tulameen River, Coldwater River, Nicola River –
MAINTAINED – Flood Watch ‐ Similkameen River
ISSUED: 6:00 PM November 28, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading a Flood Warning for:

      Tulameen River

      Coldwater River

      Lower Nicola River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

      Similkameen River

The second in a series of atmospheric rivers has impacted the British Columbia Coast this
weekend. Significant rainfall affecting the Fraser Valley was able to spillover the Cascade and
Coast Mountains and into Interior watersheds. The Fire Weather Station Thynne has recorded
nearly 50 mm of precipitation since the start of the event last night. The station is located
within the Tulameen River watershed and bordering the Coldwater River. Temperatures
increased during the storm event and likely contributed to snowmelt at mid‐elevations and
rain‐on‐snow runoff. Rivers have risen quickly but are not expected to reach the levels from
the November 13‐15 event. Although they still may cause significant flooding. In comparison,
the Thynne station recorded approximately 250 mm of precipitation from November 13‐15.

A summary of key rivers as of 18:00 PDT today:

      Coldwater River near Brookmere (08LG048) appears to be peaking at approximately 100 m3/s
       (between 5‐year and 10‐year flow) at 16:00 and is beginning to recede.

      Coldwater River near Merritt (08LG010) is flowing at 138 m3/s (50‐year flow) and rising.

      Spius Creek near Canford (08LG008) reached a water level of 2.568 m at 12:10 and is starting to
       recede.

      Tulameen River below Vuich Creek (08NL071) appears to be peaking at approximately 130 m3/s
       (between 5‐year and 10‐year flow).
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
        Tulameen River at Princeton (08NL024) is flowing at 245 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year flow)
         and rising.

        Similkameen River at Princeton (08NL007) is flowing at 85 m3/s (between 1‐year and 2‐year
         flow) and rising.

        Similkemeen River near Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at 327 m3/s (between 1‐year and 2‐year
         flow) and rising.

A third storm is the series of atmospheric rivers arrives on Tuesday‐Wednesday. Currently, the
weather models display significant uncertainty in total precipitation for the third event for the
Central Region. The risk remains for significant flooding under the wettest weather model
scenario.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
