Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Cowichan River, Koksilah River
Flood Watch – Southern Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – West Vancouver Island, East Vancouver Island,
Central Vancouver Island
UPDATE: 4:30AM November 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •      Cowichan River

   •      Koksilah River

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •      South Vancouver Island (other tributaries) (NEW)

   •      Englishman River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •      Central Vancouver Island including tributaries around Port Alberni

   •      South Vancouver Island

   •      West Vancouver Island

   •      East Vancouver Island

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since Saturday have been in the 120-270mm range across
Southern Vancouver Island and 60-175mm across Western, Central and Eastern Vancouver
Island.

Environment and Climate Change Canada have continued rainfall warnings in effect across the
region. Additional heavy rainfall is expected throughout the region overnight and is expected to
taper off around Monday afternoon.

Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is expected to add additional runoff to rivers.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Rivers have risen rapidly from rainfall since yesterday. Current conditions include:

    •    Englishman River near Parksville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08HB002) is flowing at
         174 m3/s and rising. Peak flows later today may reach up to 280 m3/s

    •    Cowichan River near Duncan (08HA011) is flowing at 510 m3/s (approaching a 20-year
         return period flow) and rising at 30 m3/s. Additional rises are expected through the day
         on Monday

    •    Koksilah River at Cowichan Station (08HA003) is currently flowing at 335 m3/s
         (approaching a 20-year flow). Additional rises are expected through Monday morning

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
