Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Liard River (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Swift River and Northwest BC (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 8:30 AM June 11, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a Flood Warning for:

    •    Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
         Lake

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Swift River, and other streams and rivers in the most northwest section of the
         province

The Liard River at Upper Crossing (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 10AA001) is currently flowing
at 2950 m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow) and has remained stable at that level for the
past few days. At the Liard River at Lower Crossing (10BE001 ) flows are currently at 8120 m3/s
(approximately a 20-year flow) with signs of leveling off and small declines early on Saturday
morning. The Swift River (09AE003) is currently flowing at 430 m3/s (20-year flow) and rising,
and similarly high flow conditions are expected in ungauged rivers nearby.

Flows are expected to remain elevated through the weekend. There are risks of additional rises
early next week due to rainfall in headwater areas.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
