Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – Flood Warning – Skeena Region (UPGRADE)
Issued: 10:00 AM May 16, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •       Skeena Region, including the Skeena River, Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries
           around Wet'suwet'en and Gitxsan Territories, Telkwa, Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and
           Terrace

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather.
Temperatures are forecast to be hot throughout the week, with daytime highs 10 to 15 degrees
Celsius above seasonal values and overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees normal. Hot
temperatures are forecasted to last through the week with temperatures in the upper 20’s to
30°C.

River Conditions:

Hot temperatures are leading to accelerated snowmelt in the region. Streamflow in most areas
has begun to rise in response to increased snowmelt runoff. With hot temperatures expected
to persist through next week, on-going rises in river levels is expected. Current monitoring is
indicating most gauged rivers in the region are flowing at 2-year to 10-year flows.

 On the Bulkley River near Smithers (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08EE005), flows are
expected to exceed the flood stage (>5.0m) today and may reach up to 10-year flow levels
(5.4m) over the Wednesday-Thursday period (May 17-18)

On the Skeena River at Usk (08EF001) water levels have reached 10.8m and are anticipated to
exceed flood stage (11.0m) later today. Flows are forecast to continue to rise over the next few
days (May 17-19) and may reach up to 20-year flows (7000 m3/s or 12.5-13.0 m)

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
Ministry of Forests

           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
