Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Coquihalla River
Flood Watch – Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon, Chilliwack River
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
UPDATE: 5:45AM November 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •     Coquihalla River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •     Fraser Valley including surrounding tributaries

   •     Fraser Canyon tributaries, including tributaries around Hope

   •     Chilliwack River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •     Howe Sound

   •     Sunshine Coast

   •     Sea-to-Sky

   •     North Shore Mountains

   •     Metro Vancouver

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 100-140mm range
through Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, and Sunshine Coast; 90-160mm in the Fraser
Valley – East, Fraser Canyon and areas around Hope and Harrison Lake.

Environment and Climate Change Canada have continued rainfall warnings in effect across the
region. Rainfall is expected is expected to taper off by Monday afternoon, with additional
amounts of around 50mm expected through the eastern Fraser Valley, and 30-40mm in other
areas.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is expected to add additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers have risen rapidly from rainfall since yesterday. Current conditions include:

    •    Chilliwack River above Slesse Creek (08MH103) have reached 375 m3/s (approaching a
         20-year flow). Additional increases are possible through the day on Monday

    •    Chilliwack River at Vedder Crossing (08MH001) reached a high of approximately 490
         m3/s overnight and has dropped through Monday morning

    •    Coquihalla River above Alexandra Creek (08MF068) is flowing at approximately 550
         m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow) and has leveled over the past few hours.
         Additional rises are possible through the day on Monday

Rivers through the region are expected to remain high through Monday morning, with
improvements expected Monday afternoon as rainfall eases.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
