Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Liard River (Upgraded)
Flood Watch – Skeena River, Bulkley River (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – Stikine, Swift River
ISSUED: 4:00 PM June 7, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warningfor:

    •   Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
        Lake

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

    •   Skeena River including the Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa,
        Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and Terrace

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •   Tributaries of the Stikine River, including streams and rivers around Dease Lake and
        Telegraph Creek

    •   Swift River, and other streams and rivers in the most northwest section of the
        province

Steady warming last week led to increased snowmelt and runoff in rivers in the region. A storm
system on Friday and Saturday added additional input into rivers as rain. On-going unsettled
weather is expected through this week, with moderate rainfall forecast in the Liard Basin on
Thursday and Friday.

The Liard River at Upper Crossing (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 10AA001) is currently flowing
at 2750 m3/s (10-year flow) and rising. On-going rises are expected from snowmelt and rainfall
runoff. Extremely high flows, exceeding 50-year return period levels or similar to flood
conditions in 2021, are possible later this week or early next week.

On the Skeena River at Usk (08EF001) flows have leveled off at 5840 m3/s (5-year return period
flow). Modelling is not indicating significant rises above current levels, however, there remains
the potential for river rises above current levels, particularly if additional rainfall falls within the
watershed.
Ministry of Forests

On the Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) flows peaked at approximately 940 m3/s and
have eased slightly to 875 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5- year flow). Modelling is not indicating
significant rises above current levels, however, there remains the potential for river rises above
current levels, particularly if additional rainfall falls within the watershed.

In other watersheds, including the Stikine River and Tuya River, flows continue steady climbs
and are now flowing at or near 2-year return period levels. On-going steady increases in flows
are expected over the next 2-3 days.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
