Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Coquitlam River (UPGRADE)
Issued: 9:30 PM December 16, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

    •    Coquitlam River downstream of Coquitlam Dam

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers and storms continue to impact British Columbia this week.
Another round of precipitation from a Pacific frontal system fueled with an atmospheric river is
bringing heavy rainfall to the North Shore Mountains this evening before tapering overnight.

River Conditions:

As of 20:35 PST, the Coquitlam River at Port Coquitlam (08MH002) has reached 152 cms flow
(2-5-year return period) and is rising rapidly and may exceed bankfull conditions this evening
and overnight. BC Hydro has released a notification that a flood alert is now in effect for the
river downstream of the Coquitlam Dam. The Dam release is currently at 52 cms and will be
maintained through the event. The heavy precipitation is contributing significant additional
runoff, increasing river flows well above the controlled release from the dam.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
