Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Coldwater, Nicola (MAINTAINED); High Streamflow
Advisory – Tulameen, Similkameen, Spius (DOWNGRADED)
ISSUED: 4:45 PM December 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

      Coldwater River

      Lower Nicola River

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Tulameen River

      Similkameen River

      Spius Creek

The third and final storm in a series of atmospheric rivers has moved through the province. A
final wave of precipitation occurred in the headwaters of the Coldwater, Similkameen and
Tulameen during the late hours of Wednesday, December 1st. Rivers in the region recorded an
additional small bump up overnight from the rain and snowmelt related to unusually warm
temperatures.

The Tulameen River has quickly receded and the Similkameen River has peaked and is
beginning to recede. Both rivers reached higher levels than the 2nd atmospheric river from the
recent series that occurred Sunday, November 28th. The peak flows from this event were
significantly lower than November 15th.

The Coldwater River at Merritt peaked this morning and is slowly receding. Based on data from
the gauge upstream at Brookmere flows should continue to lower through the evening. Flows
reached slightly higher levels than Sunday, November 28th, but were significantly lower than
November 15th. The Nicola River is likely reaching its peak this afternoon. Flows will remain very
high but should begin to recede quickly overnight. Water levels on Spius Creek are receding.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
