Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Chilcotin (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 1:00PM July 4, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •    Chilcotin, including Taseko River, Chilko River, Chilcotin River, Big Creek and
        surrounding tributaries draining from the Chilcotin Mountains

Extremely hot temperatures last week in the Chilcotin region triggered an unprecedented
amount of snowmelt at the higher elevations. Due to the delay of flows coming out of the
larger lake systems (e.g. Chilko Lake and Taseko Lakes) downstream rivers remain high, and are
currently at or near peak flow expected for this event.

The status of rivers in the region as of 08:04 PDT today:

   •    Chilcotin River near Hanceville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MB012) is currently
        flowing at approximately 557 m3/s (between 20 and 50-year flow) and is at or near peak
        flows.

   •    Taseko River near the outlet of Taseko Lake (08GE002) is flowing at approximately 155
        m3/s (2-year flow) and is down from a peak of nearly 250 m3/s (20-year flow) over the
        past few days.

   •    The Chilko River near Redstone (08MA001) is currently flowing at approximately 413
        m3/s (between 10 and 20-year) and is down from a peak of approximately 475 m3/s (50-
        year flow) over the past few days.

   •    Chilko River at outlet of Chilko Lake (08MA002) is currently flowing at 187 m3/s (20-year flow)
        and is at or near peak flow from this event.

Flows are expected to remain high on Sunday, and progress towards receding flows into the
week.

The CLEVER Model results can be found at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
