Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Upper Fraser River (UPDATE)
Issued: 11:15AM July 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the Flood Warning for the Upper Fraser River
including:

      Upper Fraser River including the Robson Valley and areas from Sinclair Mills upstream
       to Torpy, Dome Creek, Dore River, McBride and surrounding tributaries

Temperatures finally began to cool on Thursday, July 1st. The average maximum temperature at
four of the high elevation automated snow weather stations dropped to 25.4°C on Thursday –
after previously reaching extremely hot temperatures on June 27: 29.4°C, June 28: 31.5°C, June
29: 32.8°C, June 30°C: 33.1°C. The average elevation at these stations is 1,725 metres above sea
level. Temperatures are forecast to remain cooler than the extreme heat from earlier in the
week and snowmelt and glacier melt rates are expected to lower resulting in receding river
levels. The recession of river flow may be slightly slower than the CLEVER model is forecasting.

The Yellowhead Lake (1A01P) automated snow weather station measured 16 mm of rainfall
Thursday evening through Friday morning and the Fraser River at Red Pass is beginning to
increase again. The rivers in the Upper Fraser are extremely vulnerable to rain over the
upcoming 10‐days, especially if a basin‐wide event occurs. Environment and Climate Change
Canada currently forecasts has the potential for showers in the McBride region for Friday,
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday suggesting the weather pattern is becoming
unsettled and with a risk for rain.

The status of rivers in the region at 11:00am PDT on July 2nd:

      FRASER RIVER AT RED PASS (08KA007) is flowing at 324 m3/s (between 10 and 20‐year flow) and
       beginning to rise again due to rainfall Thursday evening / Friday morning at Yellowhead Lake. It
       is unlikely to reach the previous peak flow of 344 m3/s which occurred around noon on
       Wednesday, June 30th. With cooler temperatures in the forecast the Fraser River at Red Pass is
       forecast to begin receding again later today unless heavy rain occurs in the upcoming days.

      FRASER RIVER AT MCBRIDE (08KA005) is flowing at approximately 1350 m3/s (100‐year flow)
       and very slowly receding. The river reached a maximum of approximately 1420 to 1440 m3/s on
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
         Thursday (the data became very noisy at the peak) and may have surpassed the all‐time highest
         recorded flow of 1424.5 m3/s set in June 1972. Flows are expected to recede over the upcoming
         days unless moderate to heavy precipitation occurs.

        DORE RIVER NEAR MCBRIDE (08KA001) reached 120 m3/s (5‐year flow) on Thursday evening and
         continues to trend downward.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
