Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Sumas
Flood Watch –Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon
High Streamflow Advisory – Coquihalla River (DOWNGRADED), Chilliwack River
(DOWNGRADED)
ENDED – Flood Watch Sea-to-Sky, North Shore, Howe Sound
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast

UPDATE: 7:45AM November 16, 2021


As of 7:45 am November 16th, the River Forecast Centre is maintaining the following advisories:

   •   Sumas River and areas around the US Border – Flood Warning (MAINTAINED)

   •   Fraser Valley including surrounding tributaries – Flood Watch (MAINTAINED)

   •   Fraser Canyon tributaries, including tributaries around Hope – Flood Watch
       (MAINTAINED)

   •   Coquihalla River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Chilliwack River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)



The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watches and High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Sea-to-Sky - ENDED

   •   Howe Sound - ENDED

   •   North Shore Mountains - ENDED

   •   Sunshine Coast - ENDED

   •   Metro Vancouver - ENDED

The atmospheric river that impacted southern British Columbia over the weekend and Monday
has now moved out of the region. Rainfall tapered off on Monday afternoon, with limited
precipitation observed over the past 12 hours. Throughout the region river levels have reached
their peak levels and have receded overnight Monday and early on Tuesday. Flows and water
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
levels remain high in lake and reservoir-fed watersheds along the Fraser Valley, including the
Allouette River and Harrison River. Low-lying terrain around the Sumas River drainage are also
expected to have persistent high-water.

Generally dry conditions are expected over the next few days. River levels are expected to
continue to recede on Tuesday and through the week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html



The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
