Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPGRADE: Flood Warning – North Coast
Issued: 10:00 AM November 7, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

    •    North Coast including the Nass River and tributaries around Stewart, Terrace (including
         Kitsumkalum), Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert,
         Kitimat, Kemano and other coastal communities

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is impacting the north coast of British Columbia. Rainfall amounts of 30 mm
to 80 mm have been observed across the region since yesterday. On-going rainfall is expected on
Thursday before tapering off into Friday. Temperatures have risen over the course of the past
day, with snowmelt being observed at higher elevations, adding additional runoff to rivers.

River Conditions:

Rivers have been rising rapidly since Wednesday. Current flow conditions around Kitimat,
Terrace, New Aiyansh and surrounding areas have been elevated, with flows in 2-year to 10-year
flow range. Additional rises through Thursday are possible, with hydrologic forecasting
highlighting the potential for flows to reach or exceed the 20-year flow in areas later on Thursday.
The current focus of high flows are rivers and tributaries around Kitimat, however similar
conditions can be expected in areas to the north (including Terrace, Prince Rupert and north to
Nass River tributaries) and south (to Kemano and surrounding areas). Flooding and stream
erosion are expected at these flow levels.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
