Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Chilliwack River, North Shore Mountains
Flood Watch – Lower Fraser tributaries, Kingcome River, Vancouver Island (Upgrade), South
Coast (Upgrade)
High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii, North Coast, Central Coast
Issued: 08:30 AM December 15, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Chilliwack River and tributaries

   •   North Shore Mountains

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Tributaries of the Lower Fraser including the Lillooet River and tributaries around
       Pemberton, the Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon, and Coast Mountains (see separate Flood
       Warning for the Sumas River)

   •   Kingcome River

   •   Vancouver Island including the Englishman River (Upgrade)

   •   South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky (Upgrade)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   North Coast including Kitimat, Prince Rupert and surrounding areas

   •   Central Coast

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers began to impact British Columbia on Sunday and will extend
through the upcoming week. The first of these storms is currently impacting the province, with
the heaviest rainfall occurring over Vancouver Island, the North Coast and areas of the Central
and South Coast. Rainfall totals for this event, so far, range from up to 200 to 275 mm for
western Vancouver Island, 30 to 90 mm for eastern Vancouver Island, 100 to 140 mm for the
North Shore mountains, and 50 to 80 mm for the Sea-to-Sky & Pemberton regions. The
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Chilliwack River snow station (1D17P) at 1620 m elevation has measured 40 mm of
precipitation in the past 24-hours and melted 11 mm of snow water equivalent.

Temperatures increased for the Sunday-Monday event, particularly in south-west BC, with
freezing levels in the 2000-2500m range. Additional runoff from snowmelt can be anticipated
from higher elevation watersheds.

River Conditions:

Active weather over the next seven to ten days is expected to create a prolonged period of
heightened flood hazard across the B.C. coast. The heavy rain on Sunday and Monday will lead
to high streamflow on Monday and into Tuesday. Increased hazard in areas impacted by last
week’s storms can be expected.

A summary of noteworthy high river levels, as of 08:00 AM PST are:

   •   Seymour River below Orchid Creek (08GA077) reached 207 m3/s at 05:20 AM PST
       (between 50-year and 100-year flow)

   •   Tofino Creek near the Mouth (08HB086) reached 303 m3/s at 03:40 AM PST (between 5-
       year and 10-year flow)

   •   Elk River above Campbell Lake (08HD018) reached 185 m3/s at 06:50 AM PST (between
       5-year and 10-year flow)

   •   Nile Creek near Bowser (08HB022) is at 38.6 m3/s at 06:30 AM PST (between 2-year and
       5-year flow). Previous uncorrected data was showing it reaching 70 m3/s (between 10-
       year and 20-year flow)

   •   Clowhom River near Clowhom Lake (08GB013) is at 306 m3/s at 07:50 AM PST and rising
       (between 5-year and 10-year flow)

Conditions are changing rapidly as the event continues. The River Forecast Centre’s CLEVER
model will be updated later this morning and updates to advisories will be issued as needed.

Flows on regulated rivers, for example downstream of dam facilities, may be influenced by flow
management and can vary from flow forecasts for natural systems.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
