Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATED – Flood Warning – Chemainus River
MAINTAINED - Flood Warning – Englishman River, Cowichan River, Koksilah
River
MAINTAINED - Flood Watch – Southern Vancouver Island
MAINTAINED - High Streamflow Advisory – West Vancouver Island, East
Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island
UPDATE: 14:00 PM November 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading and maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •      Chemainus River (NEW)

   •      Englishman River

   •      Cowichan River

   •      Koksilah River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •      South Vancouver Island (other tributaries)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •      Central Vancouver Island including tributaries around Port Alberni

   •      South Vancouver Island

   •      West Vancouver Island

   •      East Vancouver Island

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since Saturday have been in the 120-270mm range across
Southern Vancouver Island and 60-175mm across Western, Central and Eastern Vancouver
Island.

Environment and Climate Change Canada have continued rainfall warnings in effect across the
region. Additional heavy rainfall is expected throughout the region overnight and is expected to
taper off around Monday afternoon.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is expected to add additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers have risen rapidly from rainfall since yesterday. Current conditions (as of 14:00 PDT Nov
15, 2021) include:

    •    Englishman River near Parksville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08HB002) is flowing at
         673 m3/s (near a 50 year flow), however, the rate of river rise has slowed. Additional
         rises are possible, but any additional rises will be less than experienced this morning.

    •    Chemainus River near Westholme (08HA001) is flowing at 648 m3/s (20- 50 year return
         period), and has begun to level off.

    •    Cowichan River near Duncan (08HA011) is flowing at 650 m3/s (approaching a 20-year
         return period flow) and has begun to level off.

Stream areas close to the ocean will also see contributions from rising tides, where the
afternoon high tide will unfortunately coincide with peaking river flows. CLEVER and COFFEE
forecasts only include river flows, and does not include any tidal influences; thus, please
compensate accordingly for flows on any sites that are near their ocean outlet (throughout all
southern Vancouver Island).

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
