Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED – Flood Warning – Lower Nicola River
Flood Warning – Similkameen River, Tulameen River, Coldwater River
UPDATE: 11:30 AM November 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading a Flood Warning for:

   •   Lower Nicola River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining Flood Warnings for:

   •   Similkameen River

   •   Tulameen River and tributaries

   •   Coldwater River

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 50-185 mm range across
the Coquihalla, upper Coldwater and Tulameen River watersheds. Temperatures have been
rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at automated snow weather
stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-elevations and is adding
additional runoff to rivers. Rivers have risen rapidly today, with further rain in the forecast
through today, Monday November 15th (turning to snow at higher elevations). Current
conditions include:

   •   Tulameen River at Princeton (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NL024) has peaked early this
       morning (Nov 15) and is currently at 3.811 m on the gauge. This is beyond the flow estimate
       range for this station is estimated to be beyond a 50-100 year return period flow

   •   Coldwater River at Merritt (08LG010) is at 3.48 m gauge height. This is beyond the flow estimate
       range for this station and is estimated to be beyond a 50-100 year return period flow. Continued
       rises are possible through Monday, though the rate of increase has slowed.

   •   Similkameen River at Hedley (08NL038) is flowing at 972 m3/s (approaching a 50-100 year flow)
       and has begun to peak. Additional rises are possible through Monday afternoon.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
    •    Nicola River near Spences Bridge (08LG006) is flowing at 376 m3/s (near a 50 year flow) and
         rising rapidly. Additional rises are expected into the afternoon or later Monday and may reach
         or exceed 400 m3/s.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
