Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

DOWNGRADED – High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Nicola River, Coldwater
River
ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory – Similkameen River, Tulameen River,
UPDATED: 17:30 PM November 17, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Lower Nicola River

   •   Coldwater River

The River Forecast Centre is ending High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Similkameen River

   •   Tulameen River and tributaries

Flow have continued to improve throughout the region in the wake of this historic atmospheric
river that ended Monday November 15th. This storm destroyed several of the Water Survey of
Canada monitoring sites within both the Nicola and Coldwater watersheds; however, limited
data as well as observations in the ground indicate that systems within both watersheds have
fallen significantly from the maximum flows recorded from this event; flows within the region
could still be slightly elevated, and thus remain at a High Streamflow Advisory. The Coldwater
River at Merritt (WSC gage 08LG010) is flowing at 37.1 m3/s as of 15:00 PM PDT (1-2 year
return period).

Both the Tulameen and Similkameen rivers have fallen from peaks recorded on November 15th
and flows within both systems are slowly returning to baseflow levels (and are currently flowing
below their 2 year return period thresholds).

The short-term forecast indicates near seasonal temperatures and limited precipitation that will
facilitate continued recession of streams throughout the region.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
