Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Coldwater, Nicola, Tulameen, Similkameen, Spius
ISSUED: 8:30 AM December 1, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

      Tulameen River

      Similkameen River

      Spius Creek

      Coldwater River

      Lower Nicola River

A third storm is the series of atmospheric rivers has arrived to British Columbia. Overnight
temperatures increased significantly and automated snow weather stations in the mountains in
the Fraser Valley and North Shore have started to record significant snowmelt. A rainfall
warning for Coquihalla Highway from Hope to Coquihalla Summit predicts an additional 70 mm
of rainfall until early this evening. This rain is expected to spill over the mountains and affect
interior watersheds, including the Tulameen River, Similkameen River, Spius Creek, Coldwater
River, Lower Nicola River. These rivers are still recovering from the recent peak on Monday
from the second storm of the series of atmospheric rivers this week. They are expected to be
even flashier and rise higher than this past weekend.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
