Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Telkwa River (Maintained)
Flood Watch – Kitsumkalum River (Upgraded)
High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast and Central Coast, including Skeena River and
tributaries (Maintained), Kitimat-Kemano (Downgraded), and Kingcome River (Downgraded)
Issued: 1:50 PM September 24, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Telkwa River

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Kitsumkalum River and surrounding areas

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Stewart, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Terrace, Prince Rupert, and other coastal communities, and Haida Gwaii

   •   Central Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Bella Coola, Rivers Inlet,
       and other coastal communities

   •   Kitimat River and Kemano River including tributaries

   •   Skeena River watershed including Bulkley River and tributaries and smaller streams
       around Kispiox, Hazelton, Gitsegukla, Gitanyow, Gitwangak, and other communities
       downstream

   •   Kingcome River including tributaries

Weather Synopsis:

A sequence of atmospheric river storms has been moving across B.C. North and Central coasts
and soaked the land surface in these regions. Based on the latest weather prediction modeling
by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC), the rainfall is expected to ease slightly today
and tomorrow (Tuesday and Wednesday) and then pick up again later in the week. The forecast
daily rainfall ranges from 10 to 60 mm over the rest of the week. The storm centre is expected to
shift southward.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River Conditions:

Generally, most of the coastal rivers have peaked or are peaking at levels between the 1- and 5-
year return period levels. The current hydrological modeling indicates that the streamflows are
receding or expected to recede today into the weekend. However, responding to the forecast
upcoming rainfall, streamflows may rise again in the coming days.

In response to the most recent storm, Telkwa River peaked at about 9am this morning
(September 24) at 188 m3/s, which is a flow between the 20- and 50-year return periods. Flows
are declining, but remain very high.

Kitimat River and Kemano River have peaked at levels between the 2- and 5-year return periods
and are now declining.

Kitsumkalum River is currently running at approx. 430 m3/s which is a flow between the 1- and
2-year return periods. The river continues to rise relatively slowly due to the storage effect from
the upstream lake. Based on the current hydrological modeling, the flow is expected to peak at
an approx. 5-year return period level tonight or early tomorrow morning.



Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety . Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
