Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Chilliwack River (UPGRADE),
Flood Watch – Lower Fraser tributaries, Kingcome River, Englishman River (UPGRADE),
High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii (NEW), North Coast, Central Coast, South Coast,
Vancouver Island
Issued: 12:30 PM December 14, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Chilliwack River and tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Tributaries of the Lower Fraser including the Lillooet River and tributaries around
       Pemberton, the Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon, and North Shore Mountains (see separate
       Flood Warning for the Sumas River)

   •   Kingcome River

   •   Englishman River

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Haida Gwaii (issuing)

   •   North Coast including Kitimat, Prince Rupert and surrounding areas

   •   Central Coast

   •   South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky

   •   Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is expected to impact British Columbia starting today and
extending through next week. The first of these storms is anticipated over today through
Monday, with the heaviest rainfall currently forecasted over Vancouver Island, the North Coast
and areas of the Central and South Coast. Environment and Climate Change Canada issued a
Yellow Warning for rainfall for areas in the Fraser Valley in recognition of increased vulnerability
to severe weather due to recent and current flooding. Yellow Warnings for rainfall have also
been issued for western Vancouver Island and parts of eastern Vancouver Island.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Temperatures are expected to rise through the Sunday-Monday event, particularly in south-
west BC, with freezing levels in the 2000-2500m range. Much of the snow at mid-elevations was
melted over the last week, however additional runoff from snowmelt can be anticipated from
areas.

River Conditions:

Active weather over the next seven to ten days is expected to create a prolonged period of
heightened flood hazard across the BC coast. Heavy rain on Sunday and Monday are expected
to lead to high streamflow on Monday and into Tuesday. Increased hazard in areas impacted by
last week’s storms can be expected. High flows are expected across the Fraser Valley, including
the Chilliwack River and surrounding areas. Flows may reach or exceed the 10-year to 20-year
return period range or higher in the Chilliwack River. Some forecast scenarios, though with
lower confidence, show higher peaks for the Englishman River. On Vancouver Island, South
Coast, Lower Fraser tributaries and Central Coast, heavier rainfall and increased snowmelt
runoff are highlighting increased hazards in these regions compared with last week.

Flows on regulated rivers, for example downstream of dam facilities, may be influenced by flow
management and can vary from flow forecasts for natural systems.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
