Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Sumas (MAINTAINED), Fraser Valley (ENDED)
Issued: 12:30 PM December 11, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Sumas River, including spillover from the Nooksack River

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Warning for:

   •   Lower Fraser tributaries including the Chilliwack River, Skagit River, Coquihalla River and
       other areas of the Fraser Valley around Abbotsford, Chilliwack, Hope and east through
       Manning Park

Weather Synopsis:

Heavy rainfall across the region yesterday has now eased. Environment and Climate Change
Canada have ended rainfall warnings. Observed rainfall totals since Tuesday ranged from 85 to
145 mm. Additional snowmelt was observed in mid-elevations (<1500m), with significant snow
accumulation occurring at higher elevations.

River Conditions:

The Nooksack River through Cedarville and at Everson has reached peak levels this morning.
Peak level at Cedarville (USGS gauge) was approximately 150.49ft (67,000 cfs, or approximately
a 100-year flow), and a peak level at Everson of 86.3ft. Spill of Nooksack River into the Sumas
River drainage is expected to continue through the day on Thursday, and ease on Thursday
evening. Flows on the Sumas River are expected to continue to rise into Thursday evening and
overnight before receding on Friday morning.

Flows on other rivers through the region are now receding, with continued improvements
expected through the day.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Review personal flood emergency plans and be prepared to implement if needed. Information
on local flood response, including evacuation alerts and orders, is available from local
governments and First Nations.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
