Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning –Lower Thompson (Bonaparte River and Cache Creek area)
Flood Watch – Guichon Creek (NEW), Salmon River
High Streamflow Advisory – Whiteman (DOWNGRADED), Similkameen (DOWNGRADED),
Okanagan (DOWNGRADED), North Thompson, Nicola
Advisories ENDED – Shuswap (ENDED), South Thompson (ENDED)
Issued: 1030 AM May 8, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is advising the following currently in effect:

Flood Warning

   •   Lower Thompson Region including Cache Creek, Deadman River, Criss Creek, Bonaparte
       River and surrounding areas around Cache Creek and Skeetchestn

Flood Watch

   •   Guichon Creek (UPGRADED)

   •   Salmon River including areas around Falkland and Salmon Arm

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Whiteman Creek (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River and other tributaries
       (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Vernon, Kelowna, Penticton
       and surrounding areas (DOWNGRADED)

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater, Blue River and
       surrounding areas

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Spius Creek, Coldwater River and surrounding
       areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola

ENDED – No longer under advisory

   •   Shuswap Region including tributaries around Splatsin, Salmon Arm (except Salmon
       River), Sicamous, Enderby and surrounding areas (ENDED)
Ministry of Forests

   •       South Thompson River including tributaries around Chase and surrounding areas
           (ENDED)

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada are identifying an upper trough pattern persisting
today. Shower activities will continue under this pattern, however lesser rainfall amounts are
expected as a surface low moves to northeastern B.C. and Alberta. On Tuesday, shower activity
will diminish over the B.C. coast as a ridge of high-pressure builds. Scattered showers with the
risk of an afternoon thunderstorm are forecast for the B.C. interior. There is growing confidence
in another warm spell starting this Friday and continuing at least into the weekend. This would
be accompanied with high freezing levels, above seasonal temperatures, and low humidity.

The long period of hot weather has ended. A trough of low pressure is moving into B.C. today
and Saturday, bringing the potential for rainfall in the region, and cooling temperatures.

River Conditions:

In some areas, including the Bonaparte River and Guichon Creek, flows continue to rise as
runoff from last weekend’s rainfall is moving down the watersheds. In the rest of the region,
rivers have stabilized and are expected to have receding levels through the early part of the
week. With warming temperatures later in the week, snowmelt rates are anticipated to
accelerate, with a period of increasing flows next weekend.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.
Ministry of Forests

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
