Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Whiteman Creek, Lower Thompson (Cache Creek)
Flood Watch – Similkameen, Okanagan, Salmon
High Streamflow Advisory – Nicola, Shuswap tributaries, North Thompson (NEW), South
Thompson (NEW)
Issued: 1:45 PM May 5, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining the following:

Flood Warning

   •   Whiteman Creek

   •   Lower Thompson Region including Cache Creek, Deadman River, Criss Creek, Bonaparte
       River and surrounding areas around Cache Creek and Skeetchestn

Flood Watch

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River and other tributaries

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Vernon, Kelowna, Penticton
       and surrounding areas

   •   Salmon River including areas around Falkland and Salmon Arm

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Guichon Creek, Spius Creek, Coldwater River and
       surrounding areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola

   •   Shuswap Region including tributaries around Splatsin, Salmon Arm, Sicamous, Enderby
       and surrounding areas

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater, Blue River and
       surrounding areas (NEW)

   •   South Thompson River including tributaries around Chase and surrounding areas (NEW)

Weather Synopsis:

The long period of hot weather has ended. A trough of low pressure is moving into B.C. today
and Saturday, bringing the potential for rainfall in the region, and cooling temperatures.
Ministry of Forests

There is uncertainty on the location and severity of potential rainfall over the next two days
(Friday and Saturday), with current forecasts indicating the potential for significant amounts of
precipitation (15-35+ mm) in areas. Embedded convective activity is expected to accompany
this rainfall and may lead to localized areas with more intense precipitation.

River Conditions:

Rapid snowmelt has been observed throughout the region in response to the extended period
of heat. Rivers have been rising in response to elevated snowmelt runoff.

Flows in areas around the Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge
08LF002), Arrowstone Creek Near the Mouth (08LF099), Deadman River above Criss Creek
(08LF027), and Criss Creek near Savona (08LF007) are currently in the 5-year to above the 20-
year range; flooding is possible in these rivers and in similar ungauged rivers near to these
areas.

Water levels are high on the Whiteman Creek above Bouleau Creek (08NM174) and make
return period estimates difficult, but flows are likely in excess of 10-year to 20-year flows. The
Salmon River at Falkland (08LE020) is exceeding the 10-year flow. Current flows in the
Okanagan region are approaching the 2-year flow in most areas, with some rivers reaching 2-
year to 5-year flows.

The Coldwater River and Guichon Creek are flowing at 2-year flows. Smaller tributaries in the
North Thompson River and South Thompson River are nearing 2-year flows.

With moderate to heavy rainfall forecast for Friday and Saturday, significant flood hazard will
be present throughout the region. Severe flooding is possible in areas that receive high rainfall
amounts (e.g. in excess of 40 mm). In areas where rainfall is heavy, river levels will rise rapidly
and much quicker than the past week’s snowmelt increases. Peak river levels are expected on
Saturday and Sunday.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

     •   Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

     •   Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
         streamflow rivers or streams
Ministry of Forests

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
