Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Nicola, Coldwater, Spius
Issued: 12:00 PM February 20, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

    •    Nicola River

    •    Coldwater River

    •    Spius Creek

Weather Synopsis:

The region has experienced cold temperatures since early February. Temperatures over the first
two weeks of the month reached 10-17°C below normal in the Merritt area. Temperatures have
been steadily rising this week and are forecasted to rise to daily highs in the 10-12°C range over
the weekend in Merritt, with overnight lows remaining above 0°C. Warming is expected to be
accompanied with rainfall, with 5-15 mm forecasted for valley bottom elevations, and higher
amounts of precipitation (rain and/or snow) over higher terrain.

River Conditions:

Winter fluctuations in temperature from extreme lows to extreme high and rainfall have
historically led to mid-season ice jam flooding in the Nicola, Coldwater and Spius systems. A
similar weather pattern is being set up into this weekend, and a period of increased hazard for
ice jam flooding is anticipated into this weekend and early next week.

Ice-jamming conditions can change rapidly and are difficult to predict. Fast-flowing rivers pose
increased risk to life safety.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
