Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Sumas River (DOWNGRADED), South Coast and Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser tributaries and Central Coast
Issued: 9:45 PM January 28, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Sumas River (DOWNGRADED)

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky and North Shore
       Mountains

   •   Fraser Valley – North including tributaries from Port Coquitlam to Harrison

   •   Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lower Fraser River tributaries including areas around Pemberton and Lillooet River
       tributaries, Fraser Valley – East (except Sumas River), and Fraser Canyon

Weather Synopsis:

A series of potent storms is impacting coastal British Columbia. Initial storms have delivered 50
to 200 mm through most of the region since Friday. Current forecasting is indicating the next
atmospheric river event to bring addition rain overnight Sunday through Monday, and another
system from Monday into Tuesday. The heaviest rainfall is currently forecast over West
Vancouver Island and the Coast Mountains. Temperatures are expected to warm during this
period, and snowmelt at lower and mid-elevations will provide additional runoff to rivers.

River Conditions:

Rivers have risen, and are expected to experience periods of high flows into next week. Peak
river levels are expected to occur in most areas on Monday to Tuesday and may extend from
Tuesday to Thursday for lake-driven rivers. Hydrologic modelling is indicating potential flood
conditions to develop in areas with the heaviest rainfall. On Vancouver Island this includes the
Gold River, Salmon River, Somass/Sproat Rivers, Englishman River, Qualicum River, Chemainus
River, Cowichan River and other surrounding rivers. On the South Coast areas of concern for
flooding include: tributaries around Howe Sound including the Stawamus River, Squamish River,
Mamquam River, Cheakamus River; tributaries around the North Shore Mountains and Fraser
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Valley north; and the Sunshine Coast. Other adjacent areas are currently forecast to have lower
peak flows (around 2-year flows).

High flows on the Nooksack River in Washington State have reached local flood stage, with
stage at the Nooksack River near Cedarville gauge reaching 147.2 ft at 12:30pm Sunday
morning. Water levels have peaked at 83.8 ft at the USGS gauge at Everson (12211200) earlier
this evening and have now dropped to below 83 ft and are continuing to recede. Flows are not
anticipated to overflow in the Sumas River overnight. Additional hazards for overflow from the
Nooksack may be present from the incoming storm systems on Monday through Thursday,
however hydrologic modelling from the Northwest River Forecast Center with the US National
Weather Service is not forecasting this scenario.

There remains uncertainty over the amounts of rainfall that will occur and the locations of
heaviest rainfall. Elevated flood hazards may be possible in nearby areas, particularly if the
storm tracks or patterns change from what is currently forecast.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
