Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Quesnel River (DOWNGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson (DOWNGRADED), North
Thompson, Thompson River, Nicola (ENDED)
ISSUED: 2:00PM July 8, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for:

      Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      South Thompson River (including Shuswap Lake)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

      Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Nicola River

Rivers in the Central Interior remain relatively high for this time of year due to delayed seasonal
snowmelt and additional contribution from ongoing precipitation events. In general, river
systems in the Central Interior are beginning to slowly recede or have been steadily receding
over the past week. Current weather models predict drier conditions for the upcoming week
and water levels are expected to continue the downward trend. Since water levels are relatively
high for this time of year, the river and lake systems are still vulnerable to any potential
widespread heavy rainfall event in the upcoming weeks. Smaller creek systems are highly
vulnerable to short‐duration and high intensity rain from convective thunderstorm activity.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
