Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Boundary, Slocan River (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, Kootenay
Issued: 0900 AM May 16, 2023


The following advisories are currently in effect:

Flood Watch

   •   Boundary including the Kettle River and Granby River (UPGRADED)

   •   Slocan River (UPGRADED)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Upper Columbia

   •   West Kootenay – all areas (except Slocan above)

   •   East Kootenay – all areas (

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather. The highest
temperatures are expected from today through Tuesday. Daytime highs will be 10 to 15
degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees above what
is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last through the
week with temperatures in the upper 20’s to low-30’s °C, with chances of showers in southern
portions of the region through the week.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been increasing over the past several days. In mid-elevation terrain,

snowpacks are dwindling, however significant upper elevation snow still remains. Rivers have

are rising, and a continued rising trend in river levels is expected throughout the week. Areas

with higher elevation terrain, including Ktanaxa Territory, West Kootenay and East Kootenay

regions are expected to continue to rise through the week and into the weekend. On the

Slocan River flows are forecast to reach 5-year levels by May 16-17th and may reach up to 10-
Ministry of Forests

year levels over the May 17-19th period.

On the Kettle River and Granby River, flows are forecast to reach 5-year levels by May 16-17th

and may reach up to 10-year levels over the May 17-19th period.




The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
