Ministry of Forests

Central Update
Flood Watch – Shuswap, Bonaparte River, North Thompson (UPGRADE), South Thompson
(UPGRADE), Okanagan (UPGRADE)
High Streamflow Advisory –Similkameen, Nicola, Thompson River (NEW)
Issued: 5:00 PM May 21, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is updating the following:

Flood Watch

   •   Shuswap River

   •   Bonaparte River

   •   Cache Creek, Deadman River and other nearby tributaries (NEW)

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater, Blue River and
       surrounding areas

   •   South Thompson River and including tributaries around Chase, Tk’emlúps te
       Secwépemc, Splatsin, Salmon Arm, Salmon River, Sicamous, Enderby and surrounding
       areas and surrounding areas (UPGRADED)

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Syilx Territory, Vernon,
       Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River, Lower Similkameen and
       other tributaries

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Guichon Creek, Spius Creek, Coldwater River and
       surrounding areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola

   •   Thompson River downstream of Kamloops Lake (NEW)

Weather Synopsis:

The high-pressure ridge that brought very hot temperatures to the region has broken down and
weather conditions have transitioned to more unsettled patterns. Multiple thunderstorm
watches and warnings have been issued by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC)
Ministry of Forests

over the past couple days. On Monday, convective precipitation is expected to continue with
15-25 mm precipitation possible through the region. The upcoming weather pattern is similar
to thunderstorms that caused flooding on Mission Creek near Kelowna in June 2022.

ECCC issued a Special Weather Statement on Sunday, May 21 at 11:00am PDT, indicating that
heavy rainfall is expected on Tuesday, May 23 over much of the North Thompson, South
Thompson and Bonaparte River watersheds. Light rain will begin Monday before becoming
heavier on Tuesday. Rainfall totals could range from 20-40 mm, with higher amounts expected
on east-facing mountain slopes.

River Conditions:

In higher elevation fed watersheds, rivers have reached relatively high levels for this time of

year due to accelerated snowmelt runoff from this past week.

River flows continue to rise on the South Thompson River and tributaries (Adams River,

Seymour River, Shuswap River), and are expected to continue leading up to potential

moderate to heavy rainfall on Tuesday.

On the Shuswap River, flows are expected to continue to rise. The Shuswap River at Enderby

(08LC002) is currently flowing at 424 m3/s (nearing 5-year flow).

The North Thompson River has leveled off at approximately 2,090 m3/s at the Water Survey

of Canada gauge (08LB064) at McLure from the recent heat. Additional rises are possible in

the upcoming week with moderate to heavy rainfall forecast for Tuesday in the North

Thompson headwaters.

The Bonaparte River remains high but continues to see on-going declines in flow. The

headwaters of the Bonaparte are at risk for the upcoming precipitation.

The Thompson River near Spences Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 2,850 m3/s (2-year flow) and

continuing to rise.

The public is advised:
Ministry of Forests

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
