Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Shuswap, North Thompson, Quesnel River/Cariboo Mountains
High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson River, Thompson River, Nicola
ISSUED: 10:30AM June 17, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere and Clearwater

   •   Cariboo Mountains and tributaries flowing westward including the Quesnel River,
       Quesnel Lake and Horsefly River and surrounding tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Thompson River

   •   Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

Progressive seasonal snowmelt has led to high flows in rivers throughout the British Columbia
Interior Mountains. On-going showers and rainfall have also provided additional runoff.

Seasonal snowmelt remains delayed in the higher elevations throughout the region, with 80%
to 50% of the seasonal snow accumulation at higher elevations remaining. Automated snow
weather stations at mid-elevations (for example 1A03P Barkerville, 1C20P Boss Mountain Mine,
1E14P Cook Creek) are now mostly snow-free.

A summary of river conditions as of 8:01AM Friday June 17th:

   •   North Thompson River at McLure (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08LB064) is currently flowing
       at 2020 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). Modest rises (flows between 2000-2400 m3/s)
       are forecast over the weekend from rainfall, and the river remains vulnerable to flooding if
       additional rainfall runoff occurs

   •   Shuswap River near Enderby (08LC002) is flowing at 470 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year
       flow). Flows are forecast to level off over the weekend, however the river remains vulnerable to
       rises from rainfall
Ministry of Forests

    •    South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1110 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year
         return period flow) and rising at approximately 20-40 m3/s per day. On-going rises are expected
         through the weekend, with flows up to 1200 m3/s forecast for early next week

    •    Thompson River near Spence Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 3050 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-
         year flow) and has had stable flows over the past three days. Additional modest rises are
         forecast over the weekend

    •    Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001) is flowing at 530 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year flow)
         and rising at approximately 10 m3/s per day. The rate of rise has been decreasing, however
         rainfall over the weekend is expected to contributive to additional rises

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
