Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Fraser Valley (NEW), Fraser Canyon (NEW), Chilliwack River,
Englishman River
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island
UPDATE: 3:00PM November 14, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Watch:

   •   Fraser Valley including surrounding tributaries (NEW)

   •   Fraser Canyon tributaries, including tributaries around Hope (NEW)

   •   Chilliwack River

   •   Englishman River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Vancouver Island including tributaries around Port Alberni

   •   Howe Sound

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Sea-to-Sky

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   South Vancouver Island

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   East Vancouver Island

A significant atmospheric river has made landfall across southern coastal regions of British
Columbia. Observed rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 50-100mm range
through Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, and Sunshine Coast; 45-85mm in the Fraser
Valley – East, Fraser Canyon and areas around Hope and Harrison Lake; 60-140mm around
Southern Vancouver Island; 30-60 mm around Eastern Vancouver Island; 100-145mm around
Western Vancouver Island.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Environment and Climate Change Canada have continued rainfall warnings in effect across the
region. Forecasted rainfall on Sunday through Monday is expected to be in the 50-75 mm range
across East and South Vancouver Island; up to 100mm across Western and Inland Vancouver
Island; up to 75mm around Metro Vancouver; up to 100mm across North Shore Mountains and
western Fraser Valley around Abbotsford; up to 150mm across Howe Sound and eastern Fraser
Valley around Chilliwack to Hope; and up to 80mm across areas of the Fraser Canyon.

Temperatures have been rising, with temperatures in the 5-7°C range being observed at
automated snow weather stations across the region. Snowmelt is being observed at mid-
elevations and is expected to add additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers have risen rapidly from rainfall since yesterday. Additional rises are expected through
Sunday in response to forecasted rainfall today, and ease on Monday as the heaviest rainfall
passes. Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year range. On
the Englishman River, flows are already high and additional rainfall forecasted for today is
indicating the potential for the river to reach or exceed flood stage (approximately 280 m3/s at
the Water Survey of Canada gauge 08HB002 Englishman River near Parksville). Flows on the
Chilliwack River above Slesse Creek (08MH103) have reached 260 m3/s (5-year flow) and are
expected to continue to rise overnight Sunday.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
