Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Pouce Coup River
High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region and North-East BC
ISSUED: 3:30 PM May 6, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Pouce Coupe River

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Peace Region including tributaries around Dawson Creek, Taylor, Fort St. John and
       surrounding areas

   •   Northeast BC including tributaries near the Alberta Border between Fort Nelson and
       Fort St. John

Precipitation and snowmelt through the northeast of British Columbia has been leading to rapid
streamflow rises in areas. Rainfall amounts between 20-30mm have been observed over the
past 24 hours around Fort St. John and Dawson Creek. A trough of low pressure is spiralling in
moisture from Alberta in British Columbia and is expected to continue to impact the region into
the weekend. Temperatures remain cool, and a mix of rain and snow is expected, with
additional precipitation amounts of 15-30 mm, and locally higher amounts, forecasted through
Sunday.

Rivers in the region have been rising, with continued rises expected into the weekend.

Current conditions include:

   •   Pouce Coupe River below Henderson Creek (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 07FD007) is
       flowing at 350 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year flow) and may exceed 400 m3/s by
       Saturday

   •   Kiskatinaw River near Farmington (07FD001) is currently flowing at approximately 58
       m3/s (below a 2-year flow)

Extended wet weather is possible earlier next week, and may contribute to on-going high
streamflow through the region.
Ministry of Forests

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
