Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED – Flood Watch– Tulameen River, Similkameen River, Coldwater
River, Nicola River
ISSUED: 4:00 PM November 27, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Tulameen River and Similkameen River

   •   Coldwater River and Lower Nicola River

The second in a series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the British Columbia Coast through the
weekend. Significant rainfall is expected across the eastern Fraser Valley through the rest of
Saturday and on Sunday morning. There is the potential for spillover of moist air across the
Cascade and Coast Mountains and into Interior watersheds. Warming is also expected to
contribute to snowmelt at mid-elevations and rain-on-snow runoff. There is a high degree of
uncertainty over the extent of potential spillover rainfall into the interior, as well as runoff
characteristics within these watersheds. The responses to rainfall during the Nov 13-15
atmospheric river event indicated extremely rapid runoff, and there is additional uncertainty
over how the watersheds will respond to additional rainfall over the next few days.

River levels are expected to see rises overnight Saturday and into Sunday. Flooding last week
has created increased vulnerabilities throughout the region and forecast flows, leading to
increased risks to impacts from forecasted flows.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
