Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – South Coast (Upgraded), High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver
Island & Fraser Valley (Maintained), Lillooet River (Issued)
ISSED: 3:30PM October 15, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

      North Shore Mountains

      Metro Vancouver

      Howe Sound

      Sunshine Coast

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Fraser Valley – North

      Fraser Valley – South

      Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Lillooet River near Pemberton (and tributaries)

A moderate atmospheric river event has arrived on the southern coast of British Columbia
today. The event is expected to persist for nearly 48‐hours and bring moderate to heavy
precipitation throughout areas of south‐west British Columbia. Environment and Climate
Change Canada is forecasting 75‐150 mm of total rainfall for most areas over the two‐day
period from Friday to Sunday. Higher rainfall amounts are possible, particularly over higher
terrain, with the potential for localized amounts in the 150‐250 mm range. Temperatures are
expected to rise, with freezing levels forecast to peak around 2500 m by late Friday. Recent
snow accumulation at elevation has occurred over the past few weeks, with 5‐40 mm of snow
water equivalent currently observed at automated snow weather stations throughout the
region. Most of the snow on the ground is expected to melt during this event and will
contribute additional runoff to rivers.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Friday and into Saturday in response to rainfall, with peak
flows expected on Saturday. Larger rivers, including the Squamish River, will likely experience
peak flows on Sunday. Modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2‐year to 5‐year
return period in most rivers through the region, and potentially higher depending on the rainfall
rates and amounts that ultimately occur. The most recent COFFEE model results forecast
potential flows at or greater than 20‐year return period for rivers on the North Shore, Howe
Sound and Sunshine Coast.

The storm system track is very narrow and could shift as the storm progresses; regional impacts
could be more or less than currently forecast depending on where the heaviest rainfall actually
occurs.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
