Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – North Coast (UPGRADE)
High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast
Issued: 11:00 AM February 3, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries along the outer coast and inland areas including Prince
       Rupert, Kitimat, Terrace and surrounding areas

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Coast including tributaries north of Klemtu

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is impacting the North and Central Coast of British Columbia today
through late-Wednesday. Moderate to very heavy rainfall is possible, with current weather
forecast models indicating the heaviest rainfall on outer coastal areas south of Prince Rupert
and west of Kitimat, with the region between Prince Rupert to Terrace and south to Kitimat
forecast to receive 80 to 120 mm, with high-scenario rainfall up to 250+ mm, through
Wednesday evening. Temperatures are expected to be warm, with freezing levels rising to
around 2000 m. Additional runoff from snowmelt is expected in areas with snow on the ground.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-snow melt runoff
throughout the region. Rivers are expected to rise today, with peak levels on Wednesday and
into Thursday. High-end scenarios for current weather forecasts are indicating the potential for
flooding on smaller watersheds, with key hazards including swift water, overbank flow, river
erosion, washouts and landslides.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for challenging driving
conditions and potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never drive
through flood waters or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
