Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – North Interior
Flood Watch – Upper Fraser (NEW), Middle Fraser tributaries, Nazko, West Road, Quesnel River
High Streamflow Advisory – Prince George plateau tributaries (UPDATED)
ISSUED: 12:45 PM May 6, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Upper Fraser River and tributaries upstream of Prince George including the McGregor
       River, Willow River, Bowron River and surrounding tributaries (NEW)

   •   Middle Fraser including the Cariboo mountains and tributaries east of Quesnel
       (including Quensel River, Little Swift River) and surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

   •   Middle Fraser plateau areas west of Quesnel, Williams Lake, Lhoosk'uz Dene (including
       Baker Creek, Cottonwood River, San Jose River) and surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

   •   Nazko River and West Road River (MAINTAINED)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the North Interior
including:

   •   Upper Fraser watershed including plateau areas around Prince George (including Chilako
       River, Chuchinka River, Salmon River and surrounding areas) (MAINTAINED)

Weather Synopsis:

An upper trough pattern persists this weekend and into early next week. Shower activities will
continue under this pattern. For this weekend in the B.C. interior, the areas receiving heavier
rainfall amounts will be determined by the location of the surface low, enhancing the uplifting
mechanism and giving more rain. Areas at risk of heavier rain include the Cariboo Mountains
and Rocky Mountains in the Upper Fraser River watershed.

River Conditions:

Flows throughout the region are flowing at or approachingthe 2-year to 5-year flow level.
Plateau tributaries have shown signs of diminished snowpack, with stabilized river levels over
the past few days. This includes the San Jose River, Baker Creek, Salmon River, Nazko River and
West Road River. In tributaries draining from higher terrain, on-going rises have been underway
Ministry of Forests

due to accelerated snowmelt over the past week. This includes the Bowron River, Quesnel
River, McGregor River and the mainstem of the Fraser River.

Accelerated rises in river levels are anticipated on Sunday and into Monday due to forecasted
rainfall on Saturday and Sunday. Flows in up to the 10-year to 20-year level are forecasted as
possible over this period in the Upper Fraser River tributaries, and in tributaries draining from
the Cariboo Mountains. In other areas, small additional rises above current river levels are
possible.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests
