Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Thompson River (UPGRADED), Shuswap, North Thompson,
Quesnel River, South Thompson (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory –Nicola
ISSUED: 12:30PM June 21, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge (UPGRADED)

   •   Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

   •   South Thompson River

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

   •   Cariboo Mountains and tributaries flowing westward including the Quesnel River,
       Quesnel Lake and Horsefly River and surrounding tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Nicola River

Rivers in the region are flowing very high for this time year and are extremely vulnerable to a
additional runoff at this point. An upcoming major concern is the weather forecast for a
potential long-lasting rain event in the headwaters of the South Thompson, North Thompson
and Cariboo Mountains later Tuesday through early Thursday. Uncertainty remains high for
rainfall totals and spatial extent, with current forecasts indicating the highest rainfall amounts
(40+mm) being focused in areas of the North Thompson, South Thompson, Cariboo Mountains
and Upper Columbia watersheds. If widespread heavy rainfall occurs, rivers will reach the
highest level of the season and it’s possible for significant flooding to occur. Warming
temperatures over the weekend and into next week will lead to accelerated snowmelt rates
where snow remains, however there remains uncertainty over the extent to which the available
remaining snowpack will be able to fuel significant additional rises to rivers next week. At
present, the key weather of concern for flooding in the region is the immediate rainfall pattern
on Tuesday to Thursday.
Ministry of Forests

A summary of river conditions as of noon Tuesday June 21st:

    •    North Thompson River at McLure (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08LB064) is currently flowing
         at 1810 m3/s (approximately a 2-year flow) and receding slowly. Today’s CLEVER model forecast
         predicts flows around 2500 m3/s (between 20-year and 50-year flow) later this week
         (Wednesday into Thursday) due to rainfall. Higher or lower flows are possible depending on
         rainfall amounts in the headwaters

    •    Shuswap River near Enderby (08LC002) is flowing at 450 m3/s (between a 5-year and 10-year
         flow). Flows are forecast to rise again this upcoming week with additional precipitation.

    •    South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1200 m3/s (5-year return period flow)
         with easing rates of rise over the past day or two (10 m3/s per day rate of rise). Flows are
         forecast to reach up to 1300 m3/s (10-year return period flow) later this week (Friday and
         Saturday) in response to rainfall.

    •    Thompson River near Spence Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 3100 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-
         year flow) and has been rising gradually over the past two days. Additional rises are expected
         over the weekend

    •    Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001) is flowing at 547 m3/s (between a 10-year and 20-year flow)
         and rising at approximately 5 m3/s per day. The upcoming forecast shows the possibility of rising
         to between a 20-year and 50-year flow (600 m3/s) over this weekend in response to rainfall and
         snowmelt

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
