Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – North Interior
Flood Watch – Middle Fraser tributaries, Nazko, West Road
High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River (NEW), Upper Fraser tributaries
ISSUED: 10:30 AM May 4, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining the following:

Flood Watch

   •   Middle Fraser including plateau areas around Quesnel, Williams Lake, Lhoosk'uz Dene
       (including Baker Creek, Cottonwood River, San Jose River) and surrounding areas
       (MAINTAINED)

   •   Nazko River and West Road River (MAINTAINED)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Quesnel River (NEW)

   •   Upper Fraser including plateau areas around Prince George, including Chilako River,
       Chuchinka River, Salmon River and surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

Weather Synopsis:

The long period of hot weather is expected to draw to a close on Friday. A trough of low
pressure is expected to move into B.C. on Friday and Saturday, bringing the potential for rainfall
in the region, and cooling temperatures

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been high over the past several days. In plateau areas at mid-elevation,
snowpacks are dwindling, and rivers in many areas are stabilizing. In rivers draining from higher
elevation terrain in the Cariboo Mountains (including the Quesnel River), flows continue to rise
as snowpack continues to increase runoff.

Rainfall over the weekend may lead to additional rises in rivers through the region on Saturday
and Sunday.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:
Ministry of Forests

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
