Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Illecillewaet River (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, Kootenay (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 8:00PM June 22, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Illecillewaet River and tributaries around Revelstoke

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Upper Columbia including rivers are around Invermere, Radium and Golden

   •   West Kootenay

   •   East Kootenay

A new low-pressure system has been impacting the region, bringing wet weather on
Wednesday. Rain has been the heaviest in the Upper Columbia region, particularly in areas
around Revelstoke, with wide-spread rain in the 20-40 mm range being observed since
yesterday.

Rivers have been rising rapidly in response to the rainfall. The Illecillewaet River at Greely
(Water Survey of Canada gauge 08ND013) is currently flowing at 400 m3/s (approximately a 10-
year flow) and rising.

Additional rainfall is expected overnight tonight and into the early part of Tuesday.
Temperatures are expected to drop over this period, with a transition of rain to snow at higher
elevations.

Rivers are expected to continue rising overnight on Wednesday and into Thursday before
easing off later on Thursday. Additional rises in rivers is possible later this weekend in response
to rising temperatures and increased snowmelt rates.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
