Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Howe Sound, North Shore, Metro Vancouver, Fraser
Valley
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
Issued: 12:30 PM December 26, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Howe Sound

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   Fraser Valley including Sumas River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast (other areas not noted above) including the Sunshine Coast and
       surrounding tributaries

The third in a series of storms has passed across British Columbia Sunday and early-Monday.
Rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 25-100 mm range across most of the region,
with an additional 5-20 mm of snowmelt being observed at regional Automated Snow Weather
Stations. The region may experience a brief reprieve through mid-day today (December 26th)
with another storm expected to move across the region tonight and tomorrow, bringing
additional moderate to heavy rainfall and snowmelt.

Streamflow has risen and remains high across the region. Rivers may experience a brief period
of easing flow at some point today, with additional rises expected overnight and on Tuesday in
response to the next storm system. Streamflow in the 2-year to 5-year range is anticipated in
rivers throughout the region, however higher flows are possible. Low lying flooding is expected
and may extend to overbank flooding of floodplains in areas. A Flood Watch is in effect in
Washington State, with forecasts from the National Weather Service and the Northwest River
Forecast Center indicating a small risk of overbank flooding on the Nooksack River. There may
be a small chance of a minor overflow event into the Sumas River drainage into British
Columbia.

Details of forecasts from the hydrologic models can be found at the following links:
Ministry of Forests

The COFFEE Model 5-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html

The CLEVER Model 10-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
