Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Spius (NEW), Coldwater, Nicola, Tulameen,
Similkameen
ISSUED: 9:45 AM November 30, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading or maintaining to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Spius Creek (NEW)

   •   Coldwater River

   •   Lower Nicola River

   •   Tulameen River

   •   Similkameen River

River levels have experienced improvements over the last day following high flows from this
past weekend’s atmospheric river storm. A third storm is the series of atmospheric rivers
arrives has arrived to British Columbia and is expected to bring rain to the South Coast and
South Interior on Tuesday and Wednesday. Environment and Climate Change Canada have
issued a weather warnings and special weather statements for the Fraser Canyon and
Coquihalla – Merritt areas with rainfall amounts in the 30-40 mm and 40-50 mm range
expected for each region respectively.

Additional river rises are expected on Tuesday and Wednesday from this rainfall. This is similar
rainfall amounts observed over this past weekend, and additional impacts to rivers can be
expected in these regions over the next two days. Flood Warnings will be reissued if required.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
