Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Skeena River (Upgraded) Bulkley River (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena, Stikine, and Liard (Maintained)
ISSUED: 12:15 PM June 4, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

      Skeena River including the Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa,
       Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and Terrace

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Tributaries of the Stikine River, including streams and rivers around Dease Lake and
       Telegraph Creek

      Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
       Lake

Steady warming this past week has led to increased snowmelt and runoff in rivers in the region.
A low pressure system impacted BC on Friday and into this morning. Precipitation at the
mountainous automated snow weather stations has totaled 10 to 15 mm within the Skeena and
Bulkley watersheds, so far. Weather forecasting is indicating the potential for heavier rain (20‐
50 mm) over the upcoming three days. Currently, the bullseye for heaviest rain has shifted from
the Bulkley region to the Skeena River, upstream of Glen Vowell and the Babine River.

Skeena River levels are expected to continue rising through the weekend and will rise further in
response to additional rainfall. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for
higher flows for the Skeena River, whereas the Bulkley River peaks have lower forecasts than
yesterday’s model run. The major uncertainty is the exact location of rainfall over the upcoming
days, so there is a high degree of uncertainty whether flows will reach flood stage.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
