Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Vancouver Island North and West, Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound,
North Shore Mountains (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory –Vancouver Island Central, East and South (NEW), Haida Gwaii,
North Coast, Central Coast, South Coast, Lower Fraser tributaries
Issued: 9:30 AM January 10, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Howe Sound

   •   North Shore Mountains

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Vancouver Island (NEW)

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island (NEW)

   •   Southern Vancouver Island (NEW)

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   North Coast (outer coastal areas)

   •   Central Coast (outer coastal areas)

   •   South Coast (except areas noted in Flood Watch)

   •   Lower Fraser including areas around Pemberton, Fraser Valley – North and Metro
       Vancouver

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is anticipated to impact coastal British Columbia over the
weekend and into next week. Prolonged periods of moderate to heavy rain are possible, along
with warmer temperatures and additional runoff from rain-on-snow melt. Along the North
Coast, Haida Gwaii, Central Coast and Vancouver Island rainfall has begun, and is expected to
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

continue through the weekend, with the heaviest periods of rain forecasted on Saturday
through Sunday. On the South Coast and Lower Mainland, the heaviest period of rain is
anticipated mid-day Sunday through Monday. Temperatures are expected to rise through the
weekend and into next week, with the potential for significant snowmelt on Sunday and
Monday, particularly on mid-elevation terrain on Vancouver Island, Sunshine Coast and North
Shore Mountains/Howe Sound.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-snow melt runoff
throughout the coastal region. Peak river levels are expected on Saturday and Sunday in
northern regions, and on Sunday through Monday on Vancouver Island and the South Coast.
Flows may reach or exceed 5-year to 10-year flows in areas under Flood Watch, and 2-year to 5-
year flows in other areas. Expected impacts include the potential for road washouts, localized
flooding, overbank flow, swiftwater hazards and landslides. Extra vigilance is appropriate
through the weekend and into Monday, with the expectation that this weather pattern could
lead to escalating flood hazard.

Stay away from riverbanks. Do not drive through flooded roads and washouts. Check road
conditions in advance on DriveBC and be prepared for travelling conditions. Review personal
flood response plans and be prepared to take appropriate action.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
