Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Fontas River (MAINTAINED)
ENDED - Flood Watch – Pouce Coup River
ENDED -High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region and North-East BC
ISSUED: 2:45 PM May 9, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fontas River

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watch for:

   •   Pouce Coupe River

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Peace Region including tributaries around Dawson Creek, Taylor, Fort St. John and
       surrounding areas

   •   Other areas of northeast BC including tributaries near the Alberta Border between
       Fort Nelson and Fort St. John

Temperatures through the region have led to reduced snowmelt rates, and precipitation as
snow. River levels reached peak levels over the weekend and have been receding. One
exception is the Fontas River, which is still rising. Flows at the Fontas River near the mouth
(Water Survey of Canada gauge 10CA001) is flowing at 470 m3/s (approximately a 5-year return
period flow) and rising at an easing rate. Flows are forecasted to peak later Monday or Tuesday
at around 500 m3/s. Other rivers in the region are expected to see continued declines over the
next few days.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
