Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Warning – Chilcotin River upstream of Farwell Canyon
Flood Watch – Chilcotin River, Fraser River from Chilcotin River to Hope
High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River downstream of Hope
Issued: 4:00 PM July 31, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Warning for:

   •   Chilcotin River upstream of landslide in the vicinity of Farwell Canyon

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Chilcotin River downstream of the landslide in the vicinity of Farwell Canyon

   •   Fraser River from the Chilcotin River confluence downstream to Hope

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River downstream of Hope

Synopsis:

Overnight July 30-31, a landslide occurred on the Chilcotin River near Farwell Canyon, 18 km
southeast of Hanceville, pushing debris across the river channel and blocking the flow of the
Chilcotin River. This landslide has dammed the river and is creating a lake currently extending
several kilometers upstream. Higher water levels are expected along the Chilcotin River
upstream of the dam.

Prior to the landslide, the Chilcotin River flow at the Water Survey of Canada (WSC) Chilcotin
River near Hanceville (08MB012) station was recorded at approximately 200 cubic metres per
second. The near-total blockage by the landslide has caused abrupt cessation of flow
downstream in the Chilcotin River, which is a major tributary of the Fraser River. A
corresponding decrease in flows is apparent in the Fraser River downstream of the Chilcotin-
Fraser confluence. Data from the WSC station Fraser River at Big Bar Creek (08MD013) indicate
that flows declined by over 150 cubic metres per second through mid-day on July 31.

The eventual overtopping of the landslide material may lead to sudden erosion of the debris
and catastrophic failure of the landslide dam. This could potentially cause an outburst flood
downstream of the landslide. In this scenario, a surge of water would rapidly move down the
Chilcotin River and into the Fraser River. Water levels could increase extremely quickly along
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

the Chilcotin River as well as in the Fraser River immediately below the confluence. In the event
of catastrophic failure, the flood surge could reach the Fraser River within hours, potentially
traveling from the Chilcotin River to Hope within a day.

Further downstream in the Fraser River (below the Fraser Canyon), the flood wave would be
expected to be less severe, but substantial increases in flow may extend all the way to the
mouth of the river through the Lower Mainland.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
