Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Lillooet River (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 7:00AM June 29, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for the Lillooet River, including:

       Pemberton

       Lillooet Lake

       Lillooet River and tributaries

       Harrison Lake

Pemberton has experienced extremely hot temperatures over the past four days including the
following maximum temperatures: June 25: 39.1°C, June 26: 40.3°C, June 27: 40.9°C, June 28:
43.2°C. As temperatures increased, the snowmelt contribution into the Lillooet River was
increasing and flows were continuing to rise until yesterday. Despite recording the warmest
minimum and maximum temperatures on Monday, the daily snowmelt peaks at Pemberton
Creek and the Lillooet River near Pemberton were slightly lower than the previous day’s peak.

       LILLOOET RIVER NEAR PEMBERTON (08MG005) reached the highest flows of 736 m3/s (5‐year
        flow) at 4:30am PST on Monday. Currently, the river’s daily snowmelt peak is approximately,
        702 m3/s at 4:00am PST Tuesday.

       PEMBERTON CREEK NEAR PEMBERTON (08MG025) reached 9.17m3/s on Sunday evening at
        18:35 PST. The Monday evening peak was slightly lower at 8.67 m3/s.

Environment Canada currently has one more day of extreme heat for Pemberton today with
the forecast reaching 39°C. It’s expected that the daily snowmelt peak will be slightly lower
again today for Lillooet River near Pemberton and Pemberton Creek as the watershed’s
snowpack is depleting. A stretch of cooler weather (forecast still reach 30°C for Pemberton) will
likely result in receding flows for the Lillooet River. It is unlikely for flows to reach higher than
the recent peaks unless a heavy rainfall event occurs in the upcoming 10‐days.

Typically, Harrison Lake peaks approximately 3‐days after the Lillooet River near Pemberton, so
the lake is likely to reach its maximum level near July 1st to 3rd. HARRISON LAKE NEAR
HARRISON HOT SPRINGS (08MG012) is currently at 12.08 m (5 year return period water level)
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
and expected to continue rising at the current rate for a couple more days. Similar to the
Lillooet River, the lake is vulnerable if a heavy rainfall event occurs in the upcoming weeks.

The updated CLEVER Model forecast for Tuesday June 29th will be available later this morning,
typically around 11:00am: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
