Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Kitimat River, Kemano River
High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast, Northern Vancouver Island
Issued: 12:00 PM October 11, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Kitimat River including tributaries (Little Wedeene River and Hirsch Creek) and other
       creeks in the region (Renegade Creek)

   •   Kemano River including tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries around Stewart, Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert, and other coastal communities

   •   Central Coast including tributaries around Bella Coola, Rivers Inlet, and other coastal
       communities

   •   Inland tributaries of the Skeena and Bulkley Rivers near Terrace and Smithers including
       the Kitsumkalum River and Telkwa River

   •   Northern Vancouver Island including tributaries and smaller streams around Port Hardy,
       Port Alice, Zeballos, and Tahsis


Weather Synopsis:

Another atmospheric river system is approaching the North and Central Coast this Thanksgiving
long weekend. Precipitation from the storm is expected to arrive on the North Coast beginning
Saturday morning. The stream of intense moisture will move south through the weekend,
eventually impacting Vancouver Island on Monday. Areas of the North Coast are expecting 100
to 150 mm of precipitation, with potential totals of 250 mm or more over higher terrain.
Precipitation totals from the storm are expected to be lower than the event from September 21-
24; however, river response may be more rapid due to saturated conditions from ongoing rain
events.

River Conditions:

Rivers are relatively high across the region from several weeks of recent precipitation, including
recent storms within the past few days. Saturated ground conditions and higher flows will amplify
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

rivers rises to additional precipitation. Shallow snowpack levels at higher elevations may
exacerbate the river response with additional water contribution from melting snow with higher
freezing levels.

Based on the current weather forecast, the River Forecast Centre’s hydrological models predict
the Kitimat and Kemano regions may see the greatest impact from the upcoming storm with
flows possibly reaching a 5-year return period or higher. Rises are also expected near Prince
Rupert and tributaries up the Nass River, the Bella Coola Region, Kingcome Inlet and northern
Vancouver Island. The heavy rainfall may spill over the mountains into more inland watersheds
like the Kitsumkalum River near Terrace and the Telkwa River near Smithers, which have both
experienced very high flows in the past month. Based on the precipitation timeline, North Coast
rivers will likely peak mid to late Sunday. The Kitimat River, Kemano River, and Bella Coola area
could likely peak late Sunday to mid Monday and the north end of Vancouver Island more likely
on Monday.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
