Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – North Interior
Flood Watch – Middle Fraser tributaries, Nazko, West Road, Quesnel River (NEW)
Update - High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser tributaries
ISSUED: 2:30 PM May 5, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •    Middle Fraser including the Cariboo mountains and tributaries east of Quesnel
        (including Quensel River, Little Swift River) and surrounding areas (NEW); Middle Fraser
        plateau areas west of Quesnel, Williams Lake, Lhoosk'uz Dene (including Baker Creek,
        Cottonwood River, San Jose River) and surrounding areas; and Nazko River and West
        Road River (MAINTAINED)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the North Interior
including:

   •    Upper Fraser including plateau areas around Prince George (including Chilako River,
        Chuchinka River, Salmon River and surrounding areas) (MAINTAINED)

Weather Synopsis:

Sunny conditions with warm temperatures and high freezing levels this week are transitioning
to wetter conditions as an upper low trough arriving today is bringing precipitation to the
region. There is currently uncertainty on the location and severity of potential rainfall late in the
week.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been high over the past week. In plateau areas at mid-elevation,
snowpacks are dwindling, however rivers have not reached their peak flow for the season yet.

With on-going above normal temperatures next week, on-going rises in rivers are expected
across the region, with increasing potential for flood hazard in other rivers over the coming
days. Precipitation on Friday could lead to additional flood hazard.

Flows on Baker Creek at Quesnel (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08KE016), Sheridan Creek
above McLeese Lake (08MC045), San Jose River above Boreland Creek (08MC040), and Bridge
Creek below Deka Creek (08LA027), Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001) are all flowing at
Ministry of Forests

between a 2-year to 5-year flows and will continue to rise in the coming days. Other rivers are
approaching the 2-year flow level.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
