Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Cariboo Mountains (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 1:30 PM June 8, 2022


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Cariboo Mountains and tributaries flowing westward including the Quesnel River and
       Horsefly River and surrounding tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere and Clearwater

Rainfall and snowmelt across the region has led to on-going rises in rivers draining from the
Cariboo Mountains. Significant snowpack remains in the mountains. Snow monitoring locations
at Yanks Peak (Automated Snow Weather Station 1C41P) is at record snow pack for this time of
year (exceeding 1000 mm of snow water equivalent) based on a 25-year monitoring record.
Mid-elevation snow monitoring sites at Barkerville (1A25P) and Boss Mountain Mine (1C20P)
are indicated more advanced melt (0-225 mm of snow water equivalent remaining). Given the
amount of snow remaining, it may be 1-2 weeks, or more, before these rivers reach peak levels
from snowmelt this season. Continued near-seasonal to below-seasonal temperatures are
expected through this week, with continued moderate rates of snowmelt expected. Unsettled
weather is forecast to continue through this week, with showers mid-week and again over the
weekend, brining additional runoff.

Current conditions as of 11:58AM on Wednesday June 8th include:

   •   Quesnel River near Quesnel (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08KH006) is flowing at 900 m3/s
       (approaching a 5-year return period flow) and rising. Modelling is indicating the potential for
       flows to reach up to or above 1000 m3/s (10-year return period flow) by this weekend

   •   Horsefly River above Quesnel Lake (08KH031) is flowing at approximately 250 m3/s (10-year
       flow). Additional rises to 270 to 300 m3/s (20-year flow) are possible into this weekend

   •   North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 1920 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-
       year flow). Flows are forecast to remain a relatively consistent level, with modest rises possible
Ministry of Forests

         into the weekend. The potential for additional rises later in the weekend or into next week
         remains.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
