Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Upper Fraser River
Issued: 12:00PM June 27, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for the Upper Fraser River including:

      Upper Fraser River including the Robson Valley and areas from Sinclair Mills upstream
       to Torpy, Dome Creek, McBride and surrounding tributaries

Hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered significant amount of snowmelt at
the higher elevations of the Upper Fraser River. Automated snow weather stations located in
this basin recorded maximum temperatures of 24 to 32°C at the higher elevations on Saturday.
The stations with remaining snow melted between 55 and 85‐mm snow water equivalent
yesterday. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) forecasts the hottest days to occur
beginning today through Tuesday in the Upper Fraser region, and may even last into
Wednesday. The current forecast at McBride has the following maximum temperatures,
Sunday: 36°C, Monday: 39°C, Tuesday: 40°C, Wednesday: 38°C. These high temperatures will
increase the snowmelt which will cause river levels to continue to rise in the coming days.

The status of rivers in the region are as follows:

      FRASER RIVER AT RED PASS (08KA007) is flowing at 290 m3/s (5‐year return period) and is
       forecast to continue rising through the week.

      FRASER RIVER AT MCBRIDE (08KA005) is flowing at 1080 m3/s (between 5‐year and 10‐year
       return period) and forecast to continue rising.

      DORE RIVER NEAR MCBRIDE (08KA001) reached 118 m3/s (5‐year flow) on Saturday evening and
       is expected to have higher evening peaks over the upcoming days. The highest peak will likely
       occur on the hottest day.

      MCKALE RIVER NEAR 940M CONTOUR (08KA009) reached approximately 90 m3/s (5‐year flow)
       on Saturday evening and could reach higher flows on the warmer days.

      MORKILL RIVER BELOW HELLROARING CREEK (08KA013) reached approximately 315 m3/s (2‐
       year flow) on Saturday evening and could reach higher flows on the warmer days.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
