Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Upper Columbia, East Kootenay, Chilcotin Region, Homathko River
High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region
Issued: 12:00 PM June 19, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

    •   Upper Columbia and tributaries

    •   East Kootenay

    •   Middle Fraser/Chilcotin region tributaries draining from the Coast Mountains east of
        Lillooet and Williams Lake

    •   Homathko River

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the BC Interior including
tributaries in the:

    •   Peace Region including areas around Hudson’s Hope, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Dawson
        Creek, Fort St. John and surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

A low-pressure system is expected to bring wrap around precipitation from Alberta across the
BC interior on Thursday through Sunday. On Thursday, wet weather will be predominantly in
the Peace region and extended west across the Williston Basin. On Friday and Saturday, heavy
rain is forecasted for south-east BC in the Rocky Mountains, Purcell Mountains, and across to
the typical lee side of the Coast Mountains in west central and south-west BC. The flow of
moisture during this event will be from the east, creating the potential for enhanced upslope
rainfall on the eastern slopes of mountain ranges (Rocky Mountains, Purcells, Selkirks,
Cascades, Coast Mountains). Wet weather will continue into Sunday with easing rainfall rates.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Thursday and Friday in the Peace region in response to
rainfall. In the Upper Columbia, East Kootenay and eastern Coast Mountains, the heaviest
rainfall on Friday and Saturday is expected to lead to high flows later Friday through into
Sunday.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Current modelling is indicating the possibility of flows reaching or exceeding the 5-year to 20-
year return period range in areas receiving the highest rainfall totals. Uncertainty remains high
for rainfall amounts from now through the weekend. If rainfall amounts reach the high-end
scenario of current weather modelling, then flows in the 5- to 20-year return period range or
potentially even higher may result.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
