Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: Flood Watch – West Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island, East
Vancouver Island and South Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – North Vancouver Island
Issued: 12:30PM December 26, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •     West Vancouver Island

   •     Central Vancouver Island

   •     East Vancouver Island

   •     South Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •     North Vancouver Island

The third in a series of storms has passed across British Columbia Sunday and early-Monday.
Rainfall amounts since yesterday have been in the 20-145 mm range across most of the region,
with an additional 5-20 mm of snowmelt being observed at regional Automated Snow Weather
Stations. The region may experience a brief reprieve through mid-day today (December 26th)
with another storm expected to move across the region tonight and tomorrow, bringing
additional moderate to heavy rainfall and snowmelt.

Streamflow has risen and remains high across the region. Rivers may experience a brief period
of easing flow at some point today, with additional rises expected overnight and on Tuesday in
response to the next storm system. Streamflow in the 2-year to 5-year range is anticipated in
rivers throughout the region, however modestly higher flows are possible (e.g. up to 10-year
levels). Low lying flooding is expected and may extend to overbank flooding of floodplains in
areas.
High flows on Tuesday (December 27th) are anticipated to coincide with high tides, storm surge
and high winds. This may exacerbate flood hazard in rivers at the outlet and ocean interface,
particularly through the morning (high tide at approximately 9:00AM). This would include the
Courtenay River, Englishman River, Cowichan River as well as other river outlets, particularly
along the east side of Vancouver Island.
Ministry of Forests

Details of forecasts from the hydrologic models can be found at the following links:

The COFFEE Model 5-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html

The CLEVER Model 10-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
