Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Whiteman Creek (UPGRADE), Lower Thompson
Flood Watch – South Interior
High Streamflow Advisory – Similkameen (NEW)
Issued: 3:30 PM May 2, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to, or maintaining, a Flood Warning for:

   •   Whiteman Creek (NEW)

   •   Lower Thompson including Cache Creek, Deadman River, Criss Creek, Bonaparte River
       and surrounding areas around Cache Creek and Skeetchestn

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   South Interior including remaining areas in the Lower Thompson (excluding the Nicola
       River and triburaries), Salmon River and Okanagan

The River Forecast Centre is issuing to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River and other tributaries

Weather Synopsis:

Sunny conditions with warm temperatures and high freezing levels are anticipated through this
week. Daily high temperatures remain in the upper-20°C range. On Thursday the ridge of high
pressure is forecast to weaken, with an upper low trough approaching B.C. on Friday, bringing
precipitation to the region. There is currently uncertainty on the location and severity of
potential rainfall late in the week, with current forecasts indicating the potential for significant
amounts of precipitation (20-40+ mm) in areas.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been increasing over the past few days, particularly in mid-elevation
areas, with 25 mm to 50 mm of snowmelt being observed yesterday.

Rivers have been rising in response to elevated snowmelt runoff. Flows in areas around the
Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08LF002), Arrowstone
Creek Near the Mouth (08LF099), Deadman River above Criss Creek (08LF027), and Criss Creek
near Savona (08LF007) are currently in the 5-year to above the 20-year range; flooding is
possible in these rivers and in similar ungauged rivers near to these areas. Water levels are high
Ministry of Forests

on the Whiteman Creek above Bouleau Creek (08NM174) make return period estimates
difficult, but flows are likely in excess of 10-year to 20-year flows. Current flows in the
Okanagan region remain at or below the 2-year flow in most areas.

With on-going above normal temperatures next week, on-going rises in rivers are expected
across the region, with increasing potential for flood hazard in other rivers over the coming
days. The potential for heavier precipitation on Friday and Saturday could lead to a period of
significant flood hazard through the region late this week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests
