Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Region from south Fort Liard to north Fort Nelson
Issued: 12:40PM June 16, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

      Region from south Fort Liard to north Fort Nelson within BC sides of boarders
       between BC and Yukon Territory and BC and Alberta

      Petitot River and tributaries

      Fort Nelson River and southeastern tributaries

      Fontas River

A low‐pressure system is bringing in heavy rainfall to the Northeast of BC since yesterday
afternoon. About 50 mm 24‐hour rainfall has been observed in this region yesterday and 100
mm and more is forecast for the coming two days. The ungauged small river systems are
expected to experience significant rises today into the weekend. The peak flows could reach the
historical records.

The Water Survey of Canada (WSC) real‐time hydrometric station – the PETITOT RIVER BELOW
HIGHWAY NO. 77 (10DA001) is not functioning. It is estimated that the river is currently flowing
at a flow between the 2‐ and 5‐year return periods. Based the current hydrologic modeling, the
flow at the above station is expected to reach the 50‐year return period level this weekend. The
FONTAS RIVER NEAR THE MOUTH (10CA001) is currently running at the 1‐year return period
level and expected reach the 10‐year return period level this weekend. Please refer to the
CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html) for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
