Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Bulkley River (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena, Stikine, and Liard
ISSUED: 11:15 AM June 2, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa and Smithers

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Skeena River including the Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa,
       Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and Terrace

   •   Tributaries of the Stikine River, including streams and rivers around Dease Lake and
       Telegraph Creek

   •   Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
       Lake

Steady warming this week has led to increased snowmelt and runoff in rivers in the region. A
low pressure system is expected to impact BC on Friday and into the weekend, bringing
moderate to heavy rainfall throughout the region. Current weather forecasting is indicating the
potential for heavier rain (20-50mm) areas of the Coast Mountains and headwaters of the
Bulkley River.

River levels are expected to experience rapid rises on Friday and into Saturday in response to
the rainfall. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flows to reach flood
levels through the Bulkley Valley. High flows are anticipated on the Skeena River on Saturday
and Sunday; at this point there is a higher degree of uncertainty whether flows will reach flood
stage. Additional rainfall later in the weekend and into next week may continue to keep river
levels high into next week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
