Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Canoe River, Blue River, headwaters of the Clearwater River, and
headwaters of the North Thompson River
High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson below Blue River, South Thompson, Upper
Columbia, Upper Fraser, Cariboo
Issued: 1:00 PM September 25, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Canoe River and tributary rivers around the northern end of Kinbasket Lake

   •   Blue River and tributary rivers

   •   Headwaters of the Clearwater River

   •   Headwaters of the North Thompson River above Blue River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Thompson region including tributary rivers below Blue River

   •   South Thompson region including tributary rivers around Adams and Seymour Rivers and
       surrounding areas

   •   Upper Columbia region including tributary rivers around Lake Revelstoke and surrounding
       areas

   •   Upper Fraser region including McGregor River, Robson Valley and surrounding areas

   •   Cariboo region including headwaters of the Quesnel River and surrounding areas
Weather Synopsis:

Moderate to heavy rainfall from a coastal atmospheric river is now spreading across the Interior.
Areas at risk with heavier rainfall (40-50 mm, possibly more) include the headwaters of the North
and South Thompson, Upper Fraser, Upper Columbia, and Cariboo regions.

Overnight September 24-25 (Tuesday-Wednesday), over 65 mm of rainfall was recorded at the
Valemount airport. An additional 30 mm of rainfall is currently forecast for the area during the
day of September 25.

River Conditions:

The rivers are experiencing or expected to experience a rapid increase in flows, particularly in
smaller watersheds and streams. In some areas, flows are already higher due to recent
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

precipitation, which may amplify the effects of the current storm. Heavy rainfall may exacerbate
runoff from areas that experienced severe wildfires this past summer.

As of 11:30 am PDT September 25, the Water Survey of Canada gauge on the Canoe River south
of Valemount (Canoe River below Kimmel Creek, gauge ID 08NC004) recorded flows of
approximately 109 m3/s, corresponding to the 10- to 20-year return period. The river level is
expected to continue to rise with ongoing precipitation.

As of 12:30 pm PDT September 25, the Water Survey of Canada gauge on the Blue River (Blue
River near Blue River, gauge ID 08LB038) recorded flows of approximately 32 m3/s, below the 1-
year return period level, but flows are expected to continue to rapidly increase.



Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety . Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
