Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Boundary (maintained), West Kootenay, Upper Columbia (upgraded)
High Streamflow Advisory – East Kootenay (maintained)
Issued: 3:45 PM May 21, 2023


The following advisories are currently in effect:

Flood Watch

   •   Boundary including the Kettle River and Granby River (maintained)

   •   West Kootenay (upgraded) including the Slocan River (maintained)

   •   Upper Columbia (upgraded)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   East Kootenay (maintained)

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a weather alert indicating a Severe

Thunderstorm Watch for the region Sunday that could include heavy rain. The breakdown of

the high pressure ridge that brought unseasonable hot temperatures brings cooler but wetter

conditions over the next several days. Rain will begin Sunday and continue through at least

Tuesday. Rainfall totals are forecast to be as high as 40-50 mm per day, possibly heavier at

times, in isolated areas.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been high over the past week due to extremely warm conditions in the

region. In mid-elevation terrain, snowpacks are dwindling, however upper elevation snow

remains. While many rivers are flowing relatively high for the season and may have reached

their peaks from snowmelt, rivers will be vulnerable to the additional rainfall input. The

intensity of potential flooding will be dependent on the location, duration, and magnitude of

the incoming rain events. Rivers and creeks are expected to respond rapidly and peak
Ministry of Forests

Monday through Wednesday depending upon the size and elevation of watershed. Flows on

the Slocan River and Kettle and Granby Rivers are forecast to rapidly rise on Monday into

Tuesday depending on precipitation patterns. Areas of the Upper Columbia and West

Kootenay could potentially rise above 5-year levels, including the Lardeau River and other

smaller and medium-sized watersheds, with peak levels dependent on precipitation patterns.




The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods.


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
