Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – Flood Watch – Skeena Region (downgrade)
Issued: 3:45 PM May 21, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •       Skeena Region, including the Skeena River, Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries
           around Wet'suwet'en and Gitxsan Territories, Telkwa, Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and
           Terrace (downgrade)

Weather Synopsis:

Cooler temperatures are forecast for the area as the high-pressure ridge that brought
unseasonable warm weather over the past week breaks down. Significant rainfall is currently
not in the forecast for the upcoming five days.

River Conditions:

River levels have reached their peak levels from snowmelt conditions. Rivers are expected to
continue gradually receding through the next week. Water levels at Skeena River at Usk
(08EF001), Kispiox River near Hazelton (08EB004), and Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005)
and surrounding watersheds reached their peaks on May 17th and continued through the
week. Water levels are now forecast to continue receding as snow at low-mid elevations
disappear and snowmelt rates decline.

Rivers in the region remain vulnerable if significant rainfall occurs in the upcoming two weeks.
Heavy rain expected for other regions of the province over the upcoming three days are not
expected to impact the Skeena Region.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
Ministry of Forests

get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods.


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
