Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch - South Coast, Lower Mainland, Lower Fraser Valley (UPGRADE)
High Streamflow Advisory – Coldwater/Nicola (NEW), Tulameen (NEW), Vancouver Island
Issued: 10:30 AM December 04, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   South Coast, including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains

   •   Lower Mainland including Metro Vancouver

   •   Lower Fraser Valley, including up to Hope and the Coquihalla Summit, and neighboring
       basins

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Tulameen River and tributaries (NEW)

   •   Coldwater River and tributaries of the Nicola River downstream from Merritt, including
       Spius Creek (NEW)

   •   Vancouver Island



Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river arrives to the South Coast of B.C. today. Heavy rainfall totals of 100 to 150
mm for West Vancouver Island, 100 mm for Inland Vancouver Island, 70 to 100 mm are forecast
through the North Shore Mountains, 50 to 70 mm through the Fraser Valley, near 60 mm across
the Coquihalla Summit to Merritt, and 40 to 60 mm through Manning Park are forecast today
through tonight.

The storm system will bring a wave of warmer air, quickly elevating freezing levels and
increasing the possibility of snow melt and rain-on-snow where snow has accumulated. On top
of the forecast heavy rainfall, additional runoff inputs from rain-on-snow may be substantial.

River Conditions:

River levels are expected to rise quickly beginning on Monday in areas receiving the brunt of
the storm with flows peaking Tuesday into Wednesday. Current forecasting is suggesting that
flows are expected to be highest for West Vancouver Island, the North Shore Mountains, and
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

the Lower Fraser Valley, however this could shift into nearby areas if higher than forecasted
rainfall occurs in other areas.

Uncertainty remains high about the specific storm track and rainfall amounts, as well as the
significance of rain-on-snow inputs. Flows equivalent to 2-year to 5-year return periods are
possible, with potential for higher ranges if higher end precipitation scenarios occur. Minor
flooding in low-lying areas is expected, with the possibility of more extensive overbank flooding
in areas experiencing substantial precipitation. Snowmelt and heavy runoff may cause pooling
and localized flooding in areas with poor drainage (i.e., where stream channels and drainage
structures are impacted by snow, ice, or debris).


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
