Ministry of Forests


Flood Watch – Lillooet River (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Sea-to-Sky (NEW)
Issued: 10:30AM July 27, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for the Lillooet River, including:

   •   Pemberton

   •   Lillooet Lake

   •   Lillooet River and tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Squamish River, including tributaries such as the Elaho River

   •   Sea-to-Sky rivers and creeks, especially glacially influenced

A province wide heat wave is in effect. Pemberton reached 37.1°C on Monday and 39.1°C on
Tuesday (+5.1°C higher than yesterday’s Environment and Climate Change Canada’s (ECCC)
forecast for Tuesday). Overnight low temperatures remained at 14.4°C on Tuesday morning and
15.1°C on Wednesday morning. The Lillooet River watershed is comprised of unmonitored very
high elevation snow and glacial contributions which can delay peak flows into the summer
months. The recent hot weather is significantly melting high elevation snow and glaciers in the
region. The Lillooet River near Pemberton (08MG005) hydrometric station rose overnight to
578 m3/s as of 6:30am this morning – an increase of about 75 m3/s from the previous day’s
melt-related peak. The river has reached above a 2-year return period flow (564 m3/s) at
Pemberton.

Hot weather remains in the forecast for the upcoming week. Current Pemberton ECCC Weather
Forecast Max/Min are as follows; Wednesday: 35°C/16°C, Thursday: 35°C/13°C, Friday:
34°C/13°C, Saturday: 33°C/13°C, Sunday: 32°C/16°C. The Lillooet River is expected to continue
rising this week and could reach above a 5-year return period flow (709 m3/s) or higher at
Pemberton. The upcoming flows will be the highest recorded flows for late-July since
measurements began on the Lillooet River near Pemberton in 1914.
Ministry of Forests

Other rivers and creeks in the Sea-to-Sky region with high elevation snow and glacier
contribution are experiencing significant rises due to the heat wave. The Squamish River near
Brackendale is currently flowing at 742 m3/s (slightly above a 1-year return period flow). Flows
are expected to continue rising but are unlikely to reach 2-year return period flow (1,350 m3/s)
levels in the upcoming days. Although rivers and creeks in the Sea-to-Sky are unlikely to reach
peak flood levels experienced typically from rain and rain-on-snow events in the fall, the
upcoming flows are expected to be highest experienced in late July. Extreme caution should be
taken for those travelling to the backcountry during the current heat event.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
