Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Whiteman Creek, Lower Thompson (Cache Creek)
Flood Watch – Similkameen (NEW), Okanagan, Salmon
High Streamflow Advisory – Nicola (NEW), Shuswap tributaries (NEW)
Issued: 11:30 AM May 4, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing, upgrading or maintaining the following:

Flood Warning

   •   Whiteman Creek

   •   Lower Thompson Region including Cache Creek, Deadman River, Criss Creek, Bonaparte
       River and surrounding areas around Cache Creek and Skeetchestn

Flood Watch

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River and other tributaries
       (UPGRADE)

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Vernon, Kelowna, Penticton
       and surrounding areas

   •   Salmon River including areas around Falkland and Salmon Arm

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Guichon Creek, Spius Creek, Coldwater River and
       surrounding areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola (NEW)

   •   Shuswap Region including tributaries around Splatsin, Salmon Arm, Sicamous, Enderby
       and surrounding areas (NEW)

Weather Synopsis:

The long period of hot weather is expected to end on Friday. A trough of low pressure is
expected to move into B.C. on Friday and Saturday, bringing the potential for rainfall in the
region, and cooling temperatures.

There is currently uncertainty on the location and severity of potential rainfall late in the week,
with current forecasts indicating the potential for significant amounts of precipitation (15-30+
Ministry of Forests

mm) in areas. Embedded convective activity is expected to accompany this rainfall and may
lead to localized areas with more intense precipitation.

River Conditions:

Rapid snowmelt has been observed throughout the region in response to the extended period
of heat.

Rivers have been rising in response to elevated snowmelt runoff. Flows in areas around the
Bonaparte River below Cache Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08LF002), Arrowstone
Creek Near the Mouth (08LF099), Deadman River above Criss Creek (08LF027), and Criss Creek
near Savona (08LF007) are currently in the 5-year to above the 20-year range; flooding is
possible in these rivers and in similar ungauged rivers near to these areas. Water levels are high
on the Whiteman Creek above Bouleau Creek (08NM174) make return period estimates
difficult, but flows are likely in excess of 10-year to 20-year flows. On the Salmon River at
Falkland (08LE020), flows are exceeding the 10-year flow. Current flows in the Okanagan region
are approaching the 2-year flow in most areas, with some rivers reaching 2-year to 5-year
flows.

Additional river rises from snowmelt runoff alone are expected on Thursday and Friday. With
moderate to heavy rainfall forecast for Friday and Saturday, significant flood hazard will be
present throughout the region. Severe flooding is possible in areas that receive high rainfall
amounts (e.g. in excess of 40 mm). Peak river levels are expected on Saturday and Sunday.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

     •   Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

     •   Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
         streamflow rivers or streams

     •   Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
         drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca
Ministry of Forests


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
