Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch - Bella Coola
High Streamflow Advisory – Dean River
Issued: 2:30 PM May 15, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •       Bella Coola River and tributaries, including the Atnarko River and surrounding areas

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Dean River

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the Central B.C. coast is experiencing unseasonably hot weather.
Temperatures are forecast to be hot throughout the week, with daytime highs 10 to 15 degrees
Celsius above seasonal values and overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees normal. Hot
temperatures are forecasted to last through the week with temperatures in the upper 20’s to
30°C.

River Conditions:

Streamflow in the Central Coast, Nuxalk Territory, and Tsilhqot’in Territory have been rising due
to snowmelt. Current flows at Dean River below Tanswanket Creek (Water Survey of Canada
gauge 08FC003) is flowing at approximately 157 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). Flows
on the Bella Coola River above Hammer Creek (08FB011) is currently at 420 m3/s and rising
(approaching a 2-year flow). Flows are forecast to reach 5-year to 10-year levels by Tuesday or
Wednesday (May 16-17), with additional rises (up to 10-year to 20-year flows) possible by later
in the week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams
Ministry of Forests

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
