Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – East Okanagan and Boundary (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior
ISSUED: 12:45 PM June 3, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   East Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries east of Vernon, Kelowna,
       Penticton and surrounding areas

   •   West Kettle River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Spius Creek and Lower Nicola River downstream of Spius Creek

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Other areas of the Okanagan (excluding Flood Watch locations above)

   •   Boundary Region including the Kettle River, Boundary Creek, Granby River and
       surrounding tributaries (excluding the West Kettle River above)

   •   Nicola River and upstream tributaries including the Coldwater River (excluding Flood
       Watch locations above)

   •   Similkameen River including the Tulameen River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Salmon River near Salmon Arm

A low-pressure system is expected to impact the BC Interior, bringing unsettled weather and
repeated periods of moderate to heavy rainfall across the region on Friday and into the
weekend. Rainfall forecasts are varied, with broad consensus over the pattern of unsettled
conditions and potential thundershowers, but differences in forecasted rainfall totals. Currently
the heaviest rainfall is expected to fall over the Monashee Mountains, areas east of the
Okanagan valley, and into the Boundary region, with high-range precipitation amounts of 50
mm through Friday and Saturday, with 15 mm rainfall expected through most areas.

Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for a period of high flows throughout
the region on Friday and into Saturday. There is still uncertainty in this weekend’s forecast, in
particular the locations and amounts of rainfall. Current forecasting is indicating areas around
the Okanagan and Boundary are expected to see the highest rainfall amounts and river
Ministry of Forests

responses. Adjacent areas may experience higher flows if observed rainfall shifts from currently
forecasted areas.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
