Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Moffat Creek
High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo Region
ISSUED: 1:00 PM May 7, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Moffat Creek

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Low to Mid Elevation Watersheds in the Middle Fraser/Cariboo region

A shift to more seasonal temperatures has resulted in melt of existing low to mid-elevation
snow within parts of the Cariboo. This melt, combined with scattered precipitation that has
fallen in recent days, has resulted in a rise within especially smaller watersheds at these low to
mid elevations. This advisory covers the Moffat Creek watershed, as well as low/mid elevation
watersheds throughout the eastern Middle Fraser/Cariboo region, although it only shows as the
San Jose watershed on the RFC public map due to technical limitations.

For example:

   •   Moffat Creek (08KH019) near Horsefly is currently running at 38.4 m3/s, near it’s 5-year return
       period, and is forecast to stay near this level over the weekend.

   •   San Jose River above Borland Creek (08MC040) is running at 7.93 m3/s, between a 2-5
       year return period.

   •   Bridge Creek below Deka Creek (08LA027) is running at 7.73 m3/s, between it’s 2-5 year
       return period.

This advisory does not include larger systems with more watershed area at higher elevations
where the snowpack has only begun to melt. Larger streams within the region, such as the
Quesnel River, have begun to rise but are forecast to remain near typical seasonal flows and are
not included within this High Streamflow Advisory.

The upcoming forecast over the next days indicate the potential for scattered precipitation and
a decrease in temperatures, both of which will help mitigate existing higher flows within
smaller systems.
Ministry of Forests

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
