Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Mission Creek (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior and Southeast BC
ISSUED: 6:00 AM July 4, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Mission Creek

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior
and Southeast BC including:

   •   Similkameen River and tributaries

   •   Okanagan and tributaries through the region (excluding Mission Creek)

   •   Boundary including tributaries in the Kettle and Granby Rivers

   •   West Kootenay including the Slocan River, Duhamel Creek and tributaries around the region

   •   East Kootenay including the Kootenay River and tributaries through the region

A period of unsettled weather is occurring across southern British Columbia. Rainfall amounts
in the 5 to 35 mm range have been observed throughout the region since yesterday. On
Monday, an upper low is expected to track across south-west BC, bringing wrap around
precipitation with the potential for heavier rainfall and thundershowers to areas in the South
Interior and Kootenays.

Responses in rivers is expected to be highly variable across southern BC in response to
upcoming weather, with rising rivers expected in areas which receive the heaviest rain.
Hydrologic modeling is indicating the potential for moderate flows, in the 2-year to 5-year
range, in areas. Given the uncertainty in the exact locations and intensity of rainfall, it is
possible that small and medium sized watersheds throughout the region may experience high
flows on Monday and Tuesday.

On Mission Creek near East Kelowna (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NM116), flows have
increased rapidly overnight, with current flows at 56 m3/s (approximately a 2-year flow).
Additional rises up to 80-100 m3/s are possible today into Tuesday, depending on additional
rainfall amounts through the day on Monday.
Ministry of Forests

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
