Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Chilcotin River upstream of landslide,
Flood Watch – Chilcotin River downstream of landslide to Fraser River confluence
Issued: 3:45 PM August 7, 2024


Note: The Chilcotin landslide and dam breach is a rapidly changing situation. Please check
EmergencyInfoBC for information on current evacuation alerts and orders. Additional
information can be found on the Chilcotin River Landslide Information Portal.

The River Forecast Centre is adjusting the advisory levels related to the Chilcotin River landslide
for August 7 as follows.

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Chilcotin River upstream of the landslide

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Chilcotin River downstream of the landslide to the Fraser River confluence

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Warning for:

   •   Fraser River from Chilcotin River confluence to Big Bar

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watch for:

   •   Fraser River from Big Bar downstream to Hope

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River downstream of Hope

Synopsis:

Late in the evening of July 30, 2024, a large landslide occurred on the Chilcotin River about 30
kilometres upstream of the Fraser River confluence, causing a complete blockage of the river’s
flow. The landslide site is roughly 22 kilometres upstream from the Farwell Canyon
Bridge/Forest Service Road.

At about 9:00 AM on August 5, flow started to move over (overtop) the surface of the landslide
and enter the river channel downstream. In the hours since overtopping began, the main pulse
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

of water and debris moved from the Chilcotin River into the Fraser River and has been traveling
downstream.

As of 2:00 PM on August 7, flows on the Chilcotin River and the Fraser River downstream to
Agassiz have peaked and are now receding. Peak flows measured by Water Survey of Canada
(WSC) gauges at Big Bar and Lillooet (Texas Creek) were below typical freshet levels (i.e., the
typical spring snowmelt-driven peak flows). However, since the freshet was subdued this year,
the pulse of water from the Chilcotin River flood caused the highest peak flows of the year on
the Fraser River at Big Bar and Texas Creek.

A summary of the WSC gauges is as follows:

   •   FRASER RIVER AT BIG BAR CREEK (08MD013): water level increased 3.5 m with peak of
       the pulse occurring at 0:00 PST August 6

   •   FRASER RIVER ABOVE TEXAS CREEK (08MF040) Lillooet: water level increased 2.7 m with
       the peak of pulse occurring at 7:30 PST August 6

   •   FRASER RIVER AT HOPE (08MF005): water level increased 1.1 m with peak of the pulse
       occurring at 19:30 PST August 6

   •   FRASER RIVER NEAR AGASSIZ (08MF035): water level increased 0.85 m with peak of the
       pulse occurring peaking at 23:30 PST August 6

The pulse of flow continued through the Lower Fraser Valley on the morning of August 7. Due
to tidal influences on stream gauges on the lower section of the Fraser River (including Mission)
it's not possible to determine the exact timing or water level increase for peak flows from the
pulse of the Chilcotin River.

Debris is still travelling downstream through all sections of the Fraser River. Continued vigilance
and safety are important, as hazards related to unpredictable patterns of water level changes
and increased debris loads persist.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
