Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Liard River (DOWNGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Swift River and Northwest BC (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 12:30 PM June 19, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
       Lake

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Swift River, and other streams and rivers in the most northwest section of the
       province

The Liard River has dropped from peaks experienced beginning on June 10 and lasting into June
13th. Currently, the Liard River at Lower Crossing (10BE001) is running at 5680 m3/s (between a
2-5 year return period). The short-term forecast (5 days) has the potential for the river to rise to
close to 5-year return period flows; this is lower than peaks experienced earlier in June, which
exceeded its 20 year return period. In the longer-term forecast (10 day forecast), there is
potential for the river to rise again to nearly 10 year return period flows; however, these
increases will depend on the amount of precipitation that falls within the region. As of today
(June 19th), these forecasted increases are less than peaks experienced earlier in June; however,
the advisory level could return to a Flood Warning if the rain forecast increases. This Flood
Watch advisory recognizes that while levels have dropped from previous peaks, the Liard River
remain high and remains vulnerable to significant rain (especially if rain is accompanied by
warm temperatures that increases melt of snow remaining within the region).

In the Northwest part of BC, the Swift River has dropped to 310 m3/s on June 19th (a 2-5 year
return period flow), down from 20-50 year return period flows experienced June 7 – June 14th.
The current forecast shows the potential for rises above 10-year return period flows within the
short term; please watch for updates to the maintained High Streamflow Advisory in the region
to reflect these potential increases.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
