Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE – Flood Watch – Bulkley River (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast (NEW), Northern Interior
Issued: 9:30 AM May 6, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Bulkley River and tributaries around Smithers and Houston

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for areas
including:

   •   Central Coast including the Atnarko River, Bella Coola River and surrounding tributaries
       (NEW)

   •   Lakes Region and tributary rivers around Burns Lake, Fraser Lake, Fort St. James and
       surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

   •   Omineca including tributaries between Prince George and Mackenzie (MAINTAINED)

Weather Synopsis:

An extended period of high pressure is bringing seasonally hot temperatures across British
Columbia. Daily maximum temperatures through the northern interior are expected to remain
in the low-to-mid 20°C through Thursday. Overnight low temperatures are expected to remain
above freezing. Snowmelt rates observed at Automated Snow Weather Stations in the region
have been in the 15 to 30 mm range over the past few days and are expected to accelerate and
remain elevated through mid-week.

River Conditions:

Rivers have been rising in response to hot temperatures and snowmelt. Several rivers at Water
Survey of Canada real-time monitoring locations are currently flowing near or above a mean
annual peak flow level (i.e. 2-year flow), including Buck Creek at the mouth (08EE013), Bulkley
River near Houston (08EE003), and Pack River at the outlet of McLeod Lake (07EE010). On the
Central Coast, the Atnarko River near the mouth (08FB006) reached 200 m3/s (between a 2-
year and 5-year flow) earlier this morning.

Rises in rivers throughout the region are forecast to reach the 2-year to 5-year flow, or higher,
through today and tomorrow. Low-lying flooding and bank erosion are possible at these levels.
The Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) gauge is currently at a water level of nearly 5.0m
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

(800 m3/s) and expected to continue to rise through today and tomorrow. Flows may exceed
flood stage on the Bulkley River, and other headwater areas.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
