Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Chilcotin River upstream of Farwell Canyon
Flood Watch – Chilcotin River, Fraser River from Chilcotin River to Hope
High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River downstream of Hope
Issued: 5:00 PM August 2, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Chilcotin River upstream of landslide in the vicinity of Farwell Canyon

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Chilcotin River downstream of the landslide in the vicinity of Farwell Canyon

   •   Fraser River from the Chilcotin River confluence downstream to Hope

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River downstream of Hope

Synopsis:

Overnight July 30-31, a landslide occurred on the Chilcotin River near Farwell Canyon, 18 km
southeast of Hanceville, pushing debris across the river channel and blocking the flow of the
Chilcotin River. This landslide has dammed the river and is creating a lake currently extending
over 11 kilometers upstream.

The eventual overtopping of the landslide material may lead to sudden erosion of the debris
and sudden failure of the landslide dam. This could potentially cause an outburst flood
downstream of the landslide. In this scenario, a surge of water would rapidly move down the
Chilcotin River and into the Fraser River. Water levels could increase extremely quickly along
the Chilcotin River as well as in the Fraser River immediately below the confluence. Staff are
maintaining constant surveillance of the landslide area, real-time imagery has been established
at the site, and the Water Survey of Canada has installed water level gauges in the area
upstream of the landslide to support with monitoring.

Preliminary modelling of a potential worst-case scenario of a rapid dam collapse has been
completed. This examines potential peak flow rates and water levels along the Chilcotin River
and Fraser River at locations at and downstream of the landslide through to Hope.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

While the River Forecast Centre continues to monitor conditions closely and will provide
updates if conditions warrant, the preliminary modelling shows that the potential worst-case
scenario, estimated flows are expected to be below typical freshet peak levels, along the
mainstem of the Fraser River south to Hope – though well above typical freshet flows along the
Chilcotin River from the Farrell Canyon Bridge to the Fraser Confluence.

A summary of downstream conditions from this potential scenario includes:

Chilcotin River at Farrell Canyon Bridge: estimated travel time following sudden dam failure:
1.5 hours. Estimated peak flow: 6,590 m3/s. Estimated typical freshet peak flow: 300 m3/s. Peak
height (above current): 10 m

Chilcotin River at Fraser Confluence: estimated travel time following sudden dam failure: 3
hours. Estimated peak flow: 5,545 m3/s. Estimated typical freshet peak flow: 340 m3/s. Peak
height (above current): 4 m

Fraser River at Lillooet: estimated travel time following sudden dam failure: 15 hours.
Estimated peak flow: 3,157 m3/s. Estimated current flow: 2,650 m3/s. Estimated typical freshet
peak flow: 5,400 m3/s. Peak height (above current): 1.8 m

Fraser River at Lytton: estimated travel time following sudden dam failure: 21 hours. Estimated
peak flow: 3,770m3/s. Estimated current flow: 2,650 m3/s. Estimated typical freshet peak flow:
5,440 m3/s. Peak height (above current): 1.5 m

Fraser River at Boston Bar: estimated travel time following sudden dam failure: 24 hours.
Estimated peak flow: 3,707m3/s. Estimated typical freshet peak flow: 8,600 m3/s Peak height
(above current): 1.0 m

Fraser River at Hope: estimated travel time following sudden dam failure: 29 hours. Estimated
peak flow: 3,660m3/s. Current flow: 2,700 m3/s. Typical freshet peak flow: 8,680 m3/s Peak
height (above current): 0.3 m



In addition to increased river flows and water levels, significant quantities of debris and
sediment will also be mobilized as flow is able to pass the landslide.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

There remains uncertainty over the timing and mechanism for re-establishing river flow
pathways across the landslide and into the Chilcotin River downstream, however it may occur
at any time without notice.



The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
