Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Haida Gwaii, North Coast
Issued: 9:30 AM December 27, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   North Coast (outer coastal areas)

Weather Synopsis:

A weather system is expected to enter into the north coast of British Columbia and Alaska on
Sunday, bringing heavy rain and rising temperatures. Environment and Climate Change Canada
has issued rainfall warnings for the North Coast – coastal sections, and winter storm warnings
for inland coastal areas. Weather modelling is indicating the potential for localized rainfall
amounts of 100-150mm, or higher, from Sunday through Monday. Temperatures are forecast
to rise to 6-9°C in outer coast areas near sea level, and freezing levels around 2000m. Strong
temperature gradients are anticipated moving from coastal to inland areas, with temperatures
on Monday forecast to be 7-9°C in Prince Rupert and 1°C in Kitimat and Terrace.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-snow melt runoff in
outer coastal areas near Prince Rupert and on Haida Gwaii. Hazards include swiftwater, road
washouts and increased potential of landslide activity. High flows are anticipated through the
storm on Sunday and Monday.

Cooler temperatures and lower amounts of precipitation in more inland areas, including
Kitimat, Terrace and the Nass Valley, are indicating that high flows are less likely in these areas,
with hazards being more weather related to wintery storm conditions.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
