Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: Flood Watch –Middle Fraser - Cariboo Mountains
ENDED – Flood Watch – Upper Fraser tributaries
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River mainstem
ISSUED: 11:00 AM May 24, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watches for:

   •   Middle Fraser including the Cariboo mountains and tributaries east of ?Esdilagh and
       Quesnel (including Quesnel River, Little Swift River) Secwepemc Territory and
       surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Watches and High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Upper Fraser River tributaries upstream of Prince George, including the McGregor River,
       Willow River, Bowron River, Dakehl Territory and surrounding tributaries (ENDED)

   •   Fraser River mainstem including areas around Lheidli T'enneh, Prince George to Quesnel
       (ENDED)



Weather Synopsis:

Weather has transitioned from the hot weather last week rainfall over the past 2 days to more
stable conditions. Weather this week is expected to be generally dry and warm.

River Conditions:

Runoff from snowmelt and rainfall over the past week has worked it’s way through most rivers
in the region.

In the Cariboo Mountains, lake-fed rivers including the Quesnel River and Horsesfly River, rivers
are still rising in due to the delayed runoff response in these watersheds. Small additional rises
are possible over the next few days in these rivers.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:
Ministry of Forests

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
