Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch - Coquitlam River (DOWNGRADE), Vancouver Island West, Central, East,
and South (DOWNGRADE/MAINTAINED), South Coast, Lower Fraser Tributaries
High Streamflow Advisory – North Vancouver Island (DOWNGRADE), Interior Mountains
ENDED - Central Coast, North Coast
Issued: 11:30 AM October 20, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is updating flood warnings, watches and high streamflow advisories as
follows:

   •   Flood Watch - Coquitlam River (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Flood Watch - West Vancouver Island including rivers around Tofino, Bamfield and Port
       Renfrew and surrounding areas (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Flood Watch - South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and
       tributaries around Sechelt, Squamish, Whistler and surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

   •   Flood Watch - Lower Fraser Tributaries including the Lillooet River and rivers around
       Pemberton, Metro-Vancouver, Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley (MAINTAINED)

   •   Flood Watch - Vancouver Island Central, East and South (MAINTAINED)

   •   High Streamflow Advisory – North Vancouver Island (DOWNGRADED)

   •   High Streamflow Advisory - Interior Mountains including tributary rivers in the West
       Kootenay, Upper Fraser, North Thompson, South Thompson, Cariboo Mountains, and
       Upper Columbia (MAINTAINED)

   •   ENDED - North Coast including tributaries around Stewart, Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap,
       Gitlax̱t'aamiks (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert, and other coastal communities

   •   ENDED - Central Coast including the Kingcome River and Owikeeno River


Weather Synopsis:

A system of atmospheric rivers continues to impact British Columbia. Heavy rainfall occurred
across south-west British Columbia on Friday and Saturday, with observed event rainfall totals
ranging from 30-60mm on the Central Coast, 60-100mm on North Vancouver Island, 130-300mm
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

on West Vancouver Island, 50-100mm on East Vancouver Island, 130-215mm in the North Shore
Mountains and Howe Sound, and 50-120mm in the Sea-to-Sky corridor.

Following a lull in rainfall rates last night, additional rainfall is expected on Sunday as a second
and final pulse of moist air passes over southern coastal areas and into the Interior. Moderate to
heavy rain is expected, particularly in regions around West Vancouver Island, Howe Sound, South
Coast, North Shore Mountains, and Fraser Valley and in the Interior Mountains (Upper Columbia,
West Kootenay).

River Conditions:

Most rivers through the region have experienced of period of easing overnight Saturday following
elevated runoff due to heavy rain on Friday and Saturday. Another period of rising streamflow is
expected on Sunday as the next pulse of rain moves through the region. Current weather
forecasts and hydrologic modelling is indicating on-going flood hazards in areas. Streamflow in
most areas is not expected to reach the same levels as was experienced on Saturday, however
on-going high flows and potential overbank flood remains possible. In the Interior Mountains,
rainfall is expected to persist into Monday, with on-going river rises expected on both Sunday
and Monday.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
