Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – North Thompson (UPGRADED), Cariboo Mountains
(MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 12:00 PM June 11, 2022


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

    •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere and Clearwater

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a Flood Watch for:

    •   Cariboo Mountains and tributaries flowing westward including the Quesnel River and
        Horsefly River and surrounding tributaries

Rainfall and snowmelt across the region has led to on-going rises in rivers draining from the
Cariboo Mountains over the past week.

Current conditions as of 7:04AM on Saturday June 11th include:

    •   Quesnel River near Quesnel (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08KH006) is flowing at 990 m3/s
        (approaching a 10-year return period flow) and rising slowly at approximately 30 m3/s per day

    •   Horsefly River above Quesnel Lake (08KH031) is flowing at approximately 237m3/s (between a 5-
        year and 10-year flow). Flows have eased slightly over the past few days

    •   North Thompson River at McLure (08LB064) is flowing at 2100 m3/s (approaching a 5-year flow)
        and has been rising slowly at 50-80 m3/s per day over the past few days

    •   Clearwater River near Clearwater Station (08LA001) is flowing at 1240 m3/s (between a 5-year
        and 10-year flow)

Continued modest rises in river levels are expected over the weekend due to on-going
snowmelt. More unsettled weather is in the forecast into next week and may lead to additional
rises in river levels at that time.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
