Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Maintained: Flood Watch– Chilcotin
Updated: 11:20AM July 09, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the Flood Watch for Chilcotin, including:

    •    The Chilko River and Chilcotin River downstream of the confluence with the Chilko
         RIver and surrounding tributaries, but excluding the Taseko River and Big Creek

Extremely hot temperatures last week in the Chilcotin region have triggered unprecedented
amounts of snowmelt at the higher elevations. The flows have peaked and are currently
receding, but remain at relatively high levels.

    • The Chilko River at outlet of Chilko Lake (08MA002) is currently flowing at 180 m3/s,
         which is a flow between the 10- and 20-year return periods. Based on the current
         hydrological modeling, the flow is expected to drop slowly this weekend into next week.

    •    The Chilko River near Redstone (08MA001) is currently estimated to run at a flow
         between the 2- and 5-year return periods. Based on the current hydrologic modeling,
         the flow is expected to continue to recede this weekend into next week.

    •    The Chilcotin River near Hanceville (08MB012) is currently flowing at 450 m3/s, which is
         a flow between the 10- and 20-year return periods. Based on the current hydrological
         modeling, the flow is expected to continue to recede this weekend into next week.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
