Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch - North Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island, West Vancouver
Island (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory - Englishman River (DOWNGRADED), South Vancouver Island, East
Vancouver Island, South Coast, Lower Mainland (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 12:00 PM December 26, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is advising the following currently in effect:

Flood Watch

   •   North Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED)

   •   Central Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED)

   •   West Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Englishman River (DOWNGRADED)

   •   South Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED)

   •   East Vancouver Island (MAINTAINED)

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains
       (MAINTAINED)

   •   Lower Mainland including Metro Vancouver and Fraser Valley (MAINTAINED)

Weather Synopsis:

Active weather continues over the B.C. coast following moderate to heavy precipitation from an
atmospheric river on December 25-26. Although precipitation is expected to briefly taper off on
December 26, a subsequent chain of storms is set to arrive in the evening and continue over
the next several days. Precipitation totals for the upcoming events are generally expected to be
much less than the initial storm but additional precipitation from these storms will generate
further runoff.

River Conditions:

Following the initial storm at the beginning of the week, many rivers have reached peak levels
and are now receding. However, elevated flows are expected to persist through the week, and
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

rivers remain susceptible to rapid changes and potential flooding with additional runoff inputs
from the upcoming storms.

Localized high flows may be possible throughout the region, with additional sensitivity due to
freezing levels and additional snowmelt runoff and high short-duration rainfall intensities. If
temperatures are slightly warmer than forecast, snowmelt and rain-on-snow may provide
substantial additional contributions to runoff. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Heavy runoff may cause pooling and localized flooding in areas with poor drainage (i.e., where
stream channels and drainage structures are impacted by snow, ice, or debris).



The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
