Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Fraser Valley (UPGRADE)
High Streamflow Advisory – Tulameen (NEW), Coldwater (NEW), Central Coast, South Coast,
Vancouver Island
Issued: 12:00 PM December 9, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Lower Fraser tributaries including the Chilliwack River, Skagit River, Coquihalla River and
       other areas of the Fraser Valley around Abbotsford, Chilliwack, Hope and east through
       Manning Park

   •   Sumas River, including the potential for spillover from the Nooksack River

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Tulameen River (NEW)

   •   Coldwater River (NEW)

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River, Wannock River and surrounding basins

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains and Metro Vancouver

   •   Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the United States Pacific Northwest and the south
and central coasts of British Columbia through this week. Observed rainfall since yesterday has
been in the 20 to 45 mm range for the South Coast and Fraser Valley and up to 70 to 100 mm
along West Vancouver Island. The next period of heavy rain is anticipated overnight on Tuesday
and through the day on Wednesday. While the highest precipitation amounts for these storms
are expected for Washington and Oregon, there is the possibility of heavier amounts moving
into British Columbia. Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued orange level
rainfall warnings through the region, identifying total precipitation amounts today 70 to 100
mm in the Lower Mainland, and potentially above 100 mm over higher terrain south and east of
Hope out towards Manning Park.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Temperatures are expected to rise through Wednesday, with freezing levels forecasted to rise
to 2500 m elevation. Shallow snowpack is being observed around the mid and upper elevations
of the region, with conditions to produce rain-on-snow and additional streamflow runoff.

River Conditions:

Rivers have risen from rainfall yesterday and overnight and remain high. Current observed
streamflow at real-time river gauges is between the 1-year and 2-year return period flow.

Rivers are expected to rise through Wednesday in response to heavy rain and snowmelt, with
peak levels forecasted later Wednesday, and into Thursday for larger river systems.

The highest flows are currently expected around the Fraser Valley, including the Chilliwack
River and surrounding areas. Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows to reach the
5-year to 10-year return period range or higher. Heavier rainfall south of the border is expected
to lead to flood potential for the Nooksack River. Current modelling from the Northwest River
Forecast Center (NOAA) is indicating a 13% chance of flows exceeding 148.0 ft at the Nooksack
River at North Cedarville gauge; flows at this level could lead to spill of floodwater from the
Nooksack River near Everson into the Sumas River drainage.

There is the potential for rainfall to push across the Cascade Mountains and into interior
watersheds, with high flows being possible in the Tulameen River, and to a lesser extent the
Coldwater River.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

Review personal flood emergency plans and be prepared to implement if needed. Information
on local flood response, including evacuation alerts and orders, is available from local
governments and First Nations.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
