Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Skeena River, Kispiox River (UPGRADED) ‐ High Streamflow
Advisory – Bulkley River (MAINTAINED), Nass River (ISSUED)
Issued: 2:00 PM June 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

       Skeena River, Kispiox River and tributaries.

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

       Bulkley River and tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

       Nass River and tributaries

Recent heavy rain on a melting snowpack has increased flows considerably, especially in the
Skeena River watershed, including the Kispiox River. Automated snow weather stations in the
region measured 35‐55mm of precipitation over the past 48 hours. The addition of heavy rain
increased the rate of snowmelt significantly. At 4B16P Shedin Creek, 67mm of snow water
equivalent melted yesterday (the most of any station in the province) and an additional 50mm
has already melted today. The station 4B17P Tsai Creek melted 51mm of snow water
equivalent yesterday.

The Skeena River at Usk is currently flowing at 4,900 m3/s (between 2 and 5‐year flow) and
forecast to potentially reach 20‐year return period levels. The Kispiox River near Hazelton is
flowing at 365 m3/s (nearing a 5‐year flow) and forecast to potentially reach between 10 to 20‐
year flows. The Bulkley River near Smithers is flowing at 715 m3/s (between 1 and 2‐year flow)
and may reach a 2‐year flow in the forecast period. The Nass River above Shumal Creek is
flowing at 3,450 m3/s (2‐year flow) and forecast to possibly reach 5‐year return period levels.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
