Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Northern B.C.
Issued: 2:00 PM July 22, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for Northern B.C. including:

   •   Northwest basins

   •   Tributaries of the Stikine River

   •   Tributaries of the Liard River

   •   Tributaries of the Peace River, in particular the Williston Lake and Northern Rockies
       basins

   •   Includes tributaries around Atlin, Dease Lake, Muncho Lake, Fort Nelson and
       surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

A wrap-around low-pressure system is expected to bring intense thunderstorms to the Peace
and Northern Rockies areas today followed by widespread moderate to heavy rainfall to
northern B.C. Tuesday into Wednesday. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC)
meteorological model forecasts indicate total rainfall amounts upward of 100 mm for this event
with heavy localized short-duration rainfall. Multiple weather models are currently providing
similar predictions of storm track and rainfall amounts, strengthening forecast confidence,
although local conditions may be highly variable. The precipitation is expected to ease starting
later Wednesday.

River Conditions:

The current river levels are relatively low. The latest hydrological modeling indicates that rivers,
especially small stream systems, are expected to rise significantly in response to the forecast
rainfall. Flows are expected to rise starting Tuesday with peak flows through midweek. Current
modeling indicates some small tributaries are forecast to reach above 5- to 10-year return
period levels midweek. However, high uncertainty in forecast rainfall and watershed responses
bring uncertainty in location and magnitude of forecast peak flows.

Current river levels are low in most areas; conditions are expected to be dynamic throughout
the week with periods of rapid river rises. Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
