Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Shuswap, North Thompson, Quesnel River/Cariboo Mountains,
South Thompson River (Upgraded)
High Streamflow Advisory – Thompson River, Nicola
ISSUED: 1:00PM June 19, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

      Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
       River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries and lakes)

      North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere and Clearwater

      Cariboo Mountains and tributaries flowing westward including the Quesnel River,
       Quesnel Lake and Horsefly River and surrounding tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

      South Thompson River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

      Nicola River

Rivers in the region are flowing very high for this time year and are extremely vulnerable to a
heavy rainfall event. An upcoming major concern is the weather forecast for a potential long‐
lasting rain event in the headwaters of the South Thompson, North Thompson and Cariboo
Mountains beginning late Tuesday through Wednesday. Uncertainty remains high for rainfall
totals and spatial extent. If widespread heavy rainfall occurs, rivers will reach the highest level
of the season and it’s possible for significant flooding to occur.

A summary of river conditions as of noon Sunday June 19th:

      North Thompson River at McLure (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08LB064) is currently flowing
       at 1940 m3/s (between a 2‐year and 5‐year flow) and receding slowly. Today’s CLEVER model
       forecast predicts the river could reach above 2500 m3/s (between 20‐year and 50‐year flow)
       later this week due to rainfall.

      Shuswap River near Enderby (08LC002) is flowing at 450 m3/s (between a 5‐year and 10‐year
       flow). Flows are forecast to rise again this upcoming week with additional precipitation.
Ministry of Forests

        South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) is flowing at 1180 m3/s (just passing a 5‐year return
         period flow) and continuing to rise at approximately 25‐35 m3/s per day. Additional precipitation
         in the upcoming week could continue to increase flows past 1300 m3/s (10‐year return period
         flow).

        Thompson River near Spence Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 3150 m3/s (between a 2‐year and 5‐
         year flow) and has been rising gradually over the past two days. Additional modest rises are
         forecast over the weekend. The river is forecast to remain level before possibly rising based on
         the upcoming potential rainfall in the headwaters of the North Thompson and South Thompson
         Rivers.

        Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001) is flowing at 538 m3/s (between a 10‐year and 20‐year flow)
         and rising between 5‐10 m3/s per day. The upcoming forecast shows the possibility of rising to
         between a 20‐year and 50‐year flow or higher depending on rainfall totals.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas
adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
