Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – North Coast (UPGRADE)
High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii
Issued: 2:30 PM November 9, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Stewart, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and other coastal communities

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Stewart, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and other coastal communities

   •   Haida Gwaii

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river has been impacting Haida Gwaii and the North Coast since Saturday. Rainfall
has eased on Haida Gwaii, however a rainfall warning from Environment and Climate Change
Canada remains in effect for the North Coast. Total rainfall amounts since yesterday have been
in the 65 to 95 mm range. Additional amounts of 20 to 40mm are forecast through this evening,
with higher amounts possible over higher terrain.

River Conditions:

Rivers have been rising rapidly. On Haida Gwaii, peak flows occurred earlier in the day, with flows
reaching 5-year to 20-year flows in areas. On the North Coast, rivers around Kitimat continue to
rise. Current flows are in the 2-year to 20-year range around Kitimat. Additional rises are possible
this afternoon through evening.

Flows are expected to be near peak levels in smaller creeks, with additional rises through this
evening on mid-sized and larger watersheds. Rivers should recede on Monday.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
