Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Lower Thompson (NEW), Nazko, West Road
Update - High Streamflow Advisory – B.C. Interior
Issued: 8:00 AM April 30, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Lower Thompson including Cache Creek, Deadman River, Criss Creek, Bonaparte River
       and surrounding areas around Cache Creek and Skeetchestn (NEW)

   •   Nazko River and West Road River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the B.C. Interior
including:

   •   Upper Fraser including plateau areas around Prince George (including Chilako River,
       Chuchinka River, Salmon River and surrounding areas)

   •   Middle Fraser including plateau areas around Quesnel, Williams Lake, Lhoosk'uz Dene
       (including Baker Creek, Cottonwood River, San Jose River) and surrounding areas

   •   South Interior including remaining areas in the Lower Thompson, Salmon River and
       Okanagan

Weather Synopsis:

A strong upper ridge that brought hot temperatures across the province is breaking down. An
upper low is expected to bring unsettled weather and showers today, particularly for the South
Interior. Another period of warmer temperatures is expected next week, with well above
temperatures expected.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been increasing over the past few days, particularly in mid-elevation areas
with snowmelt in the 25mm to 50mm of snow water equivalent being observed yesterday.

Rivers have been rising in response to elevated snowmelt runoff. Flows in areas around the
Nazko River, West Road (Blackwater) River, Bonaparte River, Deadman River, and Criss Creek
are currently the 2-year to 10-year range with additional rises forecast today and into next
week; flooding is possible in these rivers and in similar ungauged rivers near to these areas.
Ministry of Forests

With on-going above normal temperatures next week, on-going rises in rivers are expected
across the region, with increasing potential for flood hazard in other rivers over the coming
days.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods. For emergency
information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
