Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – North Coast
Issued: 1:30 PM November 5, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

    •    North Coast including the Nass River and tributaries around Stewart, Terrace (including
         Kitsumkalum), Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert,
         Kitimat, Kemano and other coastal communities

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is forecast to impact the north coast of British Columbia into the middle of
this week. Rainfall is expected to increase mid-day on Wednesday and continue through to late-
Thursday or early Friday. Temperatures are expected to rise during this event. Some high
elevation areas may experience precipitation as snow, however rain-on-snow and additional
snowmelt at mid-elevations is expected. The Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes
(C3WE) is forecasting atmospheric river category 3 to 4 conditions. Weather forecast models are
still showing uncertainty over rainfall intensity and locations, with heavy to very heavy rainfall
(exceeding daily precipitation amounts of 100 mm) possible.

River Conditions:

Rivers are anticipated to rise in response to rainfall, with rises on late-Wednesday through late-
Thursday and into Friday. Hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year
to 10-year return period range. Flooding and stream erosion are possible at these flow levels.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
