Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: Flood Watch – West Vancouver Island (NEW), Central Vancouver Island
(NEW), East Vancouver Island (NEW), Englishman River and South Vancouver
Island
Issued: 11:15AM December 24, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   West Vancouver Island (NEW)

   •   Central Vancouver Island (NEW)

   •   East Vancouver Island (NEW)

   •   Englishman River

   •   South Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisoryfor:

   •   North Vancouver Island

A significant rainfall pattern is moving across the southern coast of B.C today and into early
next week. Rainfall amounts in the 15-45 mm range for South and East Vancouver Island and in
the 60-100mm range for Central and West Vancouver Island have been observed over the past
24 hours. Snowmelt is occurring at lower elevations.

River levels have started to experience accelerated rising in most areas, and in particular in
areas of South Vancouver Island and West Vancouver Island. Continued heavy rain is
anticipated through today, with rainfall warnings from Environment and Climate Change
Canada in effect.

Streamflow in the 2-year to 5-year range is anticipated in rivers throughout the region, however
higher flows are possible. Low lying flooding is expected and may extend to overbank flooding
of floodplains in areas. Snowmelt at lower elevations is also anticipated to cause pooling and
flooding in areas with poor drainage or where drainage structures are impacted by snow and
ice. Rising streamflow is expected through Saturday and in areas overnight to Sunday.
Additional rainfall on Sunday through Tuesday may lead to on-going high flows and persistent
flood hazards into next week.
Ministry of Forests

Details of forecasts from the hydrologic models can be found at the following links:

The COFFEE Model 5-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html

The CLEVER Model 10-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
