Ministry of Forests

Central Update:
Flood Watch – Shuswap, South Thompson (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Bonaparte River, Thompson River (MAINTAINED)
ENDED: North Thompson, Okanagan, Similkameen, Nicola
Issued: 11:30 AM May 24, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is updating the following:

   •   Shuswap River – Flood Watch (MAINTAINED)

   •   South Thompson River and including tributaries around Chase, Tk’emlúps te
       Secwépemc, Splatsin, Salmon Arm, Salmon River, Sicamous, Enderby and surrounding
       areas and surrounding areas – Flood Watch (MAINTAINED)

   •   Thompson River downstream of Kamloops Lake – High Streamflow Advisory
       (MAINTAINED)

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater, Blue River and
       surrounding areas – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Bonaparte River - High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Cache Creek, Deadman River and other nearby tributaries (ENDED)

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Syilx Territory, Vernon,
       Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas (ENDED)

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River, Lower Similkameen and
       other tributaries (ENDED)

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Guichon Creek, Spius Creek, Coldwater River and
       surrounding areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola (ENDED)

Weather Synopsis:

The low-pressure system that impacted the B.C. central interior over the past few days has
moved on. Warmer and drier conditions are anticipated through the rest of this week.

River Conditions:

In most areas, flood hazards have diminished as snowmelt and rainfall runoff has eased. Most
Ministry of Forests

rivers in the Nicola, Bonaparte, North Thompson, Similkameen, Okanagan, have reached peak

levels and are now receding.

The Shuswap River at Enderby (08LC002) is currently flowing at 475 m3/s (approaching a 10-

year flow) and is forecast to be near peak levels today.

River flows in some upper tributaries of the South Thompson River (Eagle River, Shuswap

River, Seymour River) are near or past peak levels, while the Adams River and the mainstem

of the South Thompson River at Chase (08LE031) are still rising. The South Thompson River at

Chase (08LE031) is currently flowing at 1040 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow) and

forecast to peak over Thursday to Saturday of this week at just below 1100 m3/s.

The Bonaparte River remains high but continues to see on-going declines in flow.

The Thompson River near Spences Bridge (08LF051) is flowing at 2,900m3/s (2-year flow) and

is forecast to be near peak levels today.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

     •   Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

     •   Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
         streamflow rivers or streams

     •   Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
         drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
