Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – North Interior:
Flood Watch – Middle Fraser (Cariboo Mountains)
High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser (DOWNGRADED), Middle Fraser (Cariboo Plateau)
(DOWNGRADED)
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory George plateau tributaries (ENDED)
ISSUED: 11:00 AM May 8, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is advising the following currently in effect:

Flood Watch

   •   Middle Fraser including the Cariboo mountains and tributaries east of Quesnel
       (including Quesnel River, Little Swift River) and surrounding areas (MAINTAINED)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Fraser River mainstem including areas around Prince George to Quesnel (NEW)

   •   Upper Fraser River tributaries upstream of Prince George including the McGregor River,
       Willow River, Bowron River and surrounding tributaries (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Middle Fraser plateau areas west of Quesnel, Williams Lake, Lhoosk'uz Dene (including
       Baker Creek, Cottonwood River, San Jose River) and surrounding areas (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Nazko River and West Road River (MAINTAINED)

ENDED – No longer under advisory

   •   Upper Fraser watershed including plateau areas around Prince George (including Chilako
       River, Chuchinka River, Salmon River and surrounding areas) (MAINTAINED)



Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada are identifying an upper trough pattern persisting
today. Shower activities will continue under this pattern, however lesser rainfall amounts are
expected as a surface low moves to northeastern B.C. and Alberta. On Tuesday, shower activity
will diminish over the B.C. coast as a ridge of high-pressure builds. Scattered showers with the
risk of an afternoon thunderstorm are forecast for the B.C. interior. There is growing confidence
Ministry of Forests

in another warm spell starting this Friday and continuing at least into the weekend. This would
be accompanied with high freezing levels, above seasonal temperatures, and low humidity.

River Conditions:

Rainfall from the weekend is working it’s way through river systems in the region. In mid-

elevations, including the West Road River, Baker Creek and local tributaries around Prince

George, snowmelt has dwindled, and rivers have stabilized. In higher elevation terrain

watersheds, including the upper Fraser River and tributaries, and areas draining from the

Cariboo Mountains, flows remain high from snowmelt. Small rises may still be possible today

on larger rivers, including the Quesnel River and Fraser River, followed by a period of

relatively stable flows across the region through the week. Building temperatures later in the

week and next week will lead to a period of rising flows, and potential flood risk for the larger

rivers and higher elevation watersheds this weekend.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

     •   Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

     •   Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
         streamflow rivers or streams

     •   Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
         drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
