Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: Flood Watch – West Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – North Shore Mountains (NEW), Sea-to-Sky (NEW), Vancouver Island
(except West Vancouver Island), Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 11:15 AM October 18, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   West Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Shore Mountains (NEW)

   •   Sea-to-Sky including areas around Squamish to Whistler (NEW)

   •   Vancouver Island (except West Vancouver Island)

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Howe Sound including areas around Squamish (Squamish River, Stawamus River,
       Mamquam River)

Weather Synopsis:

A Pacific weather system is bringing significant sub-tropical moisture to coastal British
Columbia. Rainfall amounts since yesterday have ranged from 70-130 mm on West Vancouver
Island, 20-90 mm on Southern and Eastern Vancouver Island, 40-120 mm on the Sunshine Coast
and Howe Sound. The system is expected to stall overnight and through Wednesday, bringing
heavy rainfall to areas. Additional rainfall is expected through the day on Wednesday and ease
on Thursday. Total rainfall amounts of 180-250 mm are forecast for West Vancouver Island over
this period, with lesser amounts (60-120 mm) forecast for other areas.

River Conditions:

Rivers have been rising rapidly in response to heavy rainfall overnight. Rivers around Bamfield
(Sarita River, Carnation Creek) have reached up to 10-year return period flows. Current flows in
other areas are below or approaching 2-year flows.

On-going rises in river levels are expected throughout Wednesday and potentially overnight in
areas. Minor localized flooding and road washouts are possible.
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
