Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

ENDED: Flood Watch – Central Coast, Vancouver Island
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast
ISSUED: 7:45 AM December 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is ending Flood Watches and High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Central Coast including areas around Bella Coola, Wuikinuxv, Kingcome and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island

   •   Southern Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

   •   North Coast including areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley Bay, Kemano and
       surrounding tributaries

The final atmospheric river in the series has now dissipated. Heavy rainfall and snowmelt
occurred on Wednesday and Thursday, with storm rainfall totals in the 60-135mm range
observed in the Central Coast, 105-220mm on west Vancouver Island, and 10-50mm for
sheltered areas on East and South Vancouver Island. Minimal snowmelt was observed at
automated snow weather stations on the Central Coast. On Vancouver Island 20-30mm of
snowmelt contributed to river runoff.
Rivers have reached peak levels and are now receding in all areas. Conditions are expected to
stabilize across the region on Thursday. No severe weather is anticipated into the weekend, and
risks from more active weather next week are being monitored.
The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
