Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Upper Fraser (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – West Road and Nazko (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 3:00PM June 29, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

    •    Upper Fraser River including areas from Prince George and upstream tributaries
         through the Robson Valley and the McGregor River

    •    Fraser River from Prince George to Quesnel

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    West Road River including tributary rivers and streams around Nazko

Rapid snowmelt earlier in the week has contributed to increased runoff and rising flows
through the region. Rainfall yesterday covered much of the Upper Fraser watershed, with
rainfall amounts in the 20-40 mm range observed in most areas.

Areas of forecast high flows include the Bowron River, McGregor River and Fraser River around
McBride, Hansard, Shelley and through Prince George to South Fort George and further
downstream to Quesnel. The West Road River and upstream tributaries are also expected to
rise. Flows in the 5-year to 10-year range is possible in these areas. Flows on the McGregor
River at Lower Canyon (Water Survey of Canada Gauge 08KB003) have reached the 10-year
flow level (1160 m3/s) and continues to rise.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
