Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch (NEW) - North Vancouver Island, Central Vancouver Island, West
Vancouver Island, Englishman River
High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED) - South Vancouver Island, East Vancouver Island
(except Englishman River), South Coast, Lower Mainland
Issued: 11:45 AM December 25, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   North Vancouver Island

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   Englishman River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Vancouver Island

   •   East Vancouver Island (except Englishman River)

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains

   •   Lower Mainland including Metro Vancouver, Fraser Valley, and surrounding tributaries

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river arriving today is bringing moderate to heavy precipitation to coastal
British Columbia. Current forecasts indicate that the storm will be centered on western,
northern, and central Vancouver Island, with likely spill over into southern and eastern
Vancouver Island. It is possible that heavy precipitation will extend farther inland, up Howe
Sound and across the Lower Mainland.

River Conditions:

River levels are expected to rise quickly beginning on Monday in areas receiving the brunt of
the storm with flows in most areas likely to peak Tuesday into Wednesday. Current forecasts
suggest that flows will be highest for Vancouver Island; however, nearby areas (e.g., the North
Shore Mountains) could also be affected if higher than forecasted rainfall occurs.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The current hydrologic modeling indicates that streamflow in the Englishman River is expected
to meet or exceed 150 m3/s on Tuesday (tomorrow).

Localized high flows may be possible throughout the region, with additional sensitivity due to
freezing levels and additional snowmelt runoff and high short-duration rainfall intensities. If
temperatures are slightly warmer than forecast, snowmelt and rain-on-snow may provide
substantial additional contributions to runoff. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Heavy runoff may cause pooling and localized flooding in areas with poor drainage (i.e., where
stream channels and drainage structures are impacted by snow, ice, or debris).



The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
