Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED: Flood Watch – Lillooet River
Issued: 10:00AM June 26, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for the Lillooet River, including:

   •   Pemberton

   •   Lillooet Lake

   •   Lillooet River and tributaries

   •   Harrison Lake

Hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered significant amount of snowmelt at
the higher elevations of the Lillooet River. Based on the data from the automated snow
weather stations located in the Lillooet basin, it is estimated that snow water equivalent (SWE)
at high elevations ranges from 100 mm to 500 mm, and melting at 40-50 mm per day.
Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) forecasts continuous high temperatures up to
40°C in Pemberton and other areas in the Lillooet basin for the coming days. These high
temperatures will increase substantially the snowmelt and glacier melt which will cause river
levels to rise significantly in the coming days.

Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the LILLOOET RIVER NEAR PEMBERTON (Water
Survey of Canada gauge 08MG005) is expected to peak at approximately 800 m3/s (approaching
a 10-year return period) on Thursday (July 1). The LILLOOET RIVER AT TENAS NARROWS
(08MG027) is expected to peak at approximately 1,500 m3/s (20-year return period) on
Thursday (July 1). HARRISON LAKE NEAR HARRISON HOT SPRINGS (08MG012) is expected to
peak at approximately 13.2 m (50-year return period) on Friday to Saturday (July 1-2).
Uncertainty in weather and hydrologic modelling indicates that higher, or lower, than
forecasted flows are possible. Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be
found at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
