Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – North Interior: Flood Watch – Upper Fraser (UPGRADE), Middle Fraser - Cariboo
Mountains (UPGRADE); High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River mainstem
ISSUED: 4:30 PM May 21, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is updating the following advisories:

Flood Watch

   •   Upper Fraser River tributaries upstream of Prince George, including the McGregor River,
       Willow River, Bowron River, Dakehl Territory and surrounding tributaries (UPGRADE)

   •   Middle Fraser including the Cariboo mountains and tributaries east of ?Esdilagh and
       Quesnel (including Quesnel River, Little Swift River) Secwepemc Territory and
       surrounding areas (UPGRADE)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Fraser River mainstem including areas around Lheidli T'enneh, Prince George to Quesnel



Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada issued a Special Weather Statement on Sunday, May
21 at 11:00am PDT, indicating that heavy rainfall is expected on Tuesday, May 23. A significant
and slow-moving low-pressure system developing over central Alberta will bring rain into the
region. Light rain will begin Monday before becoming heavier on Tuesday. Rainfall totals could
range from 20-40 mm, with higher amounts expected on east-facing mountain slopes.
Locations listed under the Special Weather Statement include Prince George, McBride, Quesnel
and Williams Lake.

River Conditions:

Many rivers in the Cariboo and Upper Fraser are flowing very high for the time of year due to
recent hot temperatures and rapid snowmelt. With moderate to heavy rainfall possible on
Tuesday, rivers could rise rapidly to potential flood levels. Conditions will be dependent on the
location, duration and magnitude of the incoming storm event.

The public is advised:
Ministry of Forests

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
