Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Sumas River and Sumas Prairie
 Flood Watch – Coquihalla (DOWNGRADED), South Coast
ISSUED: 11:30 AM November 28, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Sumas River including Sumas Prairie and surround area

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for the South Coast including:

   •   Coquihalla River (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Sea-to-Sky including areas around Squamish, Whistler and Pemberton

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Howe Sound

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Lower Mainland including areas along the Fraser Valley and areas around Hope

The third in a series of atmospheric rivers is impacting British Columbia on Tuesday. This is
forecast to bring a prolonged period of heavy rainfall across the region through until
Wednesday. Environment and Climate Change Canada are forecasting rainfall amounts of up to
50 mm for the Pemberton Valley, up to 60 mm for Metro Vancouver Central including
Vancouver, Burnaby and New Westminster, Metro Vancouver - southeast including Surrey and
Langley and Whistler, 60 to 80 mm over southern sections of Sunshine Coast, Abbotsford,
Chilliwack and Metro Vancouver - northeast including Coquitlam, and up to 120 mm near the
North Shore mountains and Squamish and 30 to 40 mm in the Fraser Canyon up to Boston Bar.
Temperatures are expected to warm through this event and will lead to additional runoff from
snowmelt at mid elevations; snowmelt rates during this past weekend’s atmospheric river
reached 40-60mm of snow water equivalent, and similar or higher rates are expected over the
next 24-48 hours.

River will see rises through Tuesday and Wednesday, with peak flows expected late-Wednesday
and potentially overnight into Thursday. Rainfall and snowmelt rates are similar to this past
weekend; this may lead to similar or exacerbated flow conditions and flooding may occur at
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
preciously vulnerable locations or may emerge in new areas through the region. Flood warnings
will be reissued or upgraded if required.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
