Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Peace Region (UPGRADE)
ISSUED: 2:00 PM May 21, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •       Peace Region, including tributaries around Fort St. John, Taylor, Chetwynd, Moberly
           Lake, Pine Pass, Hudson’s Hope and Dawson Creek


Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada issued a Rainfall Warning for the B.C. Peace River &
Southeast Fort Nelson Region, south of Mile 202 Rest Stop this morning at 10:57am PDT. Rain
will begin early Monday morning and continue through Tuesday night. Rainfall totals are
forecast to be 50-75 mm with amounts approaching 100mm for southern areas of the B.C.
Peace River District (e.g. Tumbler Ridge).

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been high over the past week due to extremely warm conditions in the
region. Many rivers are flowing relatively high for the season and will be vulnerable to the
additional rainfall input. The general pattern of the weather event is similar to 2011 and 2016,
when substantial flooding occurred in the region. The intensity of potential flooding will be
dependent on the location, duration and magnitude of the incoming storm event. Rivers and
creeks are expected to respond rapidly and peak late Monday through Wednesday depending
upon the size and elevation of watershed.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning
Ministry of Forests

Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
