Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Elk River (UPGRADED)
Flood Watch – West Kootenay (UPGRADED), Upper Columbia (UPGRADED), East
Kootenay (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 8:15AM June 13, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Elk River

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Upper Columbia including the Kicking Horse River, Illecillewaet River and tributaries
       around Invermere, Radium, Golden and Revelstoke

   •   West Kootenay

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   East Kootenay

Rising snowmelt rates and unsettled and showery weather has been leading to rising river
levels throughout the region. A number of rivers through the region are currently at or
approaching 2-year return period flows, particularly in the East Kootenay. This includes the Elk
River near Fernie (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NK002), Bull River near Gardner
(08NG002), Kootenay River at Fort Steele (08NG065), Kaslo River below Kemp Creek
(08NH008), Slocan River near Crescent Valley (08NJ013) and tributaries around Nelson and
Creston.

A low-pressure system is expected to bring a period of wet weather to the region on Monday
and Tuesday. Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Rainfall Warning for the Elk
Valley, with rainfall amounts in the 50 to 80 mm, and the highest amounts around Fernie. A
Special Weather Statement is in effect for the rest of the East Kootenay and West Kootenay,
with 30 to 50 mm rainfall expected; and for the Columbia region, with 20 to 40 mm of rainfall
expected.

Current hydrologic modelling is indicating risks for flooding into the Tuesday period, particularly
in the East Kootenay region. Flows in the 5-year to 10-year return period range are likely, with
flows in the 20-year range or higher being possible. Given the uncertainty in the position of the
Ministry of Forests

weather pattern and heaviest rainfall, it is possible that adjacent areas in the West Kootenay
and Upper Columbia also experience significant flows (e.g. exceeding 5-year to 10-year flows).

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
