Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Liard River (Upgraded), Skeena River, Bulkley River (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – Stikine, Swift River (Added)
ISSUED: 12:45 PM June 5, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

       Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
        Lake

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

       Skeena River including the Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa,
        Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and Terrace

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

       Tributaries of the Stikine River, including streams and rivers around Dease Lake and
        Telegraph Creek

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

       Swift River, and other streams and rivers in the most northwest section of the
        province

Steady warming last week led to increased snowmelt and runoff in rivers in the region. A storm
system on Friday and Saturday added additional input into rivers as rain. Additional
precipitation is forecast today and tomorrow, primarily for the Bulkley Valley and Skeena
region, which could lead to significant rises for the Bulkley and Skeena Rivers. The rate of rise
and peak water levels on the rivers will depend on the amount of rainfall. Environment and
Climate Change Canada is currently forecasting 15mm for Smithers with higher values possible
in the mountains. Rain falling on a melting snowpack in the mountains increases the risk for
rapid river rises.

The Liard River at Lower Crossing (10BE001) is flowing at a 2‐year level. Further upstream in the
Yukon, the Liard River below Scurvy Creek (10AA006), is flowing between 10‐year and 20‐year
flow. The Liard River at Lower Crossing is expected to continue rising to higher levels over the
upcoming days from upstream tributary contributions.
Ministry of Forests


Current streamflow conditions (as of 12:10PM PDT, June 5):

        Skeena River at Usk (08EF001) is flowing at 5,060 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year flow) and
         expected to continue rising.

        Bulkley River at Quick (08EE004) is flowing at 610 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year flow) and
         leveling off from recent rainfall. Additional rain beginning today will likely increase flows, again.

        Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) is flowing at approximately 875 m3/s (between 2‐year
         and 5‐year flow) and leveling off from recent rainfall. Additional rain beginning today will likely
         increase flows, again.

        Swift River near Swift River (09AE003) is flowing at 305 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year flow)
         and rising.

        Stikine River at Telegraph Creek (08CE001) is flowing at 2,000 m3/s (nearing 2‐year flow) and
         predicted to begin leveling off this evening into tomorrow.

        Tuya River near Telegraph Creek (08CD001) is flowing at 390 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year
         flow) and not expecting significant rises in the following days.

        Liard River at Lower Crossing (10BE001) is flowing at 5,500 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year
         flow) and forecast to continue rising over the next few days.

        Liard River below Scurvy Creek (10AA006) in the Yukon is flowing at nearly 780 m3/s (between
         10‐year and 20‐year flow)

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
