Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Chilcotin (UPGRADED)
Issued: 1:15PM June 27, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

      Chilcotin, including Taseko River, Chilko River, Chilcotin River, Big Creek, Homathko
       River and surrounding tributaries draining from the Chilcotin/South Coast Mountains

Continued hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered significant amount of
snowmelt at the higher elevations of the Chilcotin and South Coast Mountains. Automated
snow weather stations (1300‐1600m) are snow‐free, however satellite analysis is indicating
snow coverage in upper elevations throughout the region. Nearby automated snow weather
stations in the South Coast have been melting at a rate of 40‐60 mm per day. Environment and
Climate Change Canada (ECCC) forecasts the hottest temperatures in region over the upcoming
days. These high temperatures will increase the snowmelt and glacier melt substantially which
will cause river levels to continue to rise through the upcoming week.

The status of rivers in the region as of 13:00 PDT:

      Chilcotin River near Hanceville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MB012) is currently
       flowing at approximately 335m3/s (nearing 5‐year flow) and rising rapidly. It’s expected
       to continue rising through the week and could reach up to 20‐year return period flows.

      Taseko River near the outlet of Taseko Lake (08GE002) is currently flowing at
       approximately 190 m3/s (5‐year flow) and expected to continue rising. It may reach up
       to 20‐year return period flows by July 1.

      The Chilko River near Redstone (08MA001) is currently flowing at approximately 335
       m3/s (approaching a 5‐year return period flow) and expected to continue rising through
       the week.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
