Ministry of Forests

UPDATE – North Interior: High Streamflow Advisory – Middle Fraser (Cariboo Mountains)
(DOWNDGRADED), Upper Fraser
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory - Middle Fraser (Cariboo Plateau)
ISSUED: 12:30 PM May 14, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is advising the following currently in effect:

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Middle Fraser including the Cariboo mountains and tributaries east of ?Esdilagh and
       Quesnel (including Quesnel River, Little Swift River) Secwepemc Territory and
       surrounding areas (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Fraser River mainstem including areas around Lheidli T'enneh, Prince George to Quesnel

   •   Upper Fraser River tributaries upstream of Prince George, including the McGregor River,
       Willow River, Bowron River, Dakehl Territory and surrounding tributaries

ENDED – No longer under advisory

   •   Middle Fraser plateau areas west of Quesnel, Williams Lake, Lhoosk'uz Dene (including
       Baker Creek, Cottonwood River, San Jose River) and surrounding areas (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Nazko River and West Road River (MAINTAINED)



Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather. The highest
temperatures are expected from today through Tuesday. Daytime highs will be 10 to 15
degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees above what
is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last through the
week with temperatures approaching 30°C.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have increased over the past two days, leading to the onset of rising river
Ministry of Forests

levels. Flows are expected to continue with a rising trend through next week, and the

prolonged heat will sustain rapid snowmelt rates.

In mid-elevation areas (e.g. Nazko River, Baker Creek and similar), snowpack has dwindled,

and river levels have been dropping.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
