Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Central Coast, South Coast, Lower Fraser Tributaries, Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Interior Mountains
Issued: 12:30 PM October 17, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River and Owikeeno River

   •   South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and tributaries
       around Sechelt, Squamish, Whistler and surrounding areas

   •   Lower Fraser Tributaries including the Lillooet River and rivers around Pemberton,
       Metro-Vancouver, Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley

   •   Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries around Stewart, Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert, and other coastal communities

   •   Interior Mountains including tributary rivers in the Upper Fraser, North Thompson,
       South Thompson, Cariboo Mountains, and Upper Columbia


Weather Synopsis:

Another atmospheric river system is approaching coastal British Columbia. While the Central and
North Coast have experienced several storm cycles this season, this will be the first significant
event of the season for south-west BC. Rainfall is expected to begin during the day on Friday,
with a prolonged period of rainfall forecast to extend through into Sunday. Current weather
modelling is indicating the highest rainfall amounts across western Vancouver Island and the
South Coast, with total rainfall amounts forecast in the 80 mm to 150 mm range and the potential
to reach 200 mm to 300 mm over higher terrain. Lesser rainfall amounts, in the 30 mm to 80 mm
range (up to 80mm to 100mm over higher terrain) are forecast for other areas, including the
Interior Mountains.

River Conditions:

Rivers are anticipated to rise rapidly in response to rainfall on Friday, through Saturday and into
Sunday. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flooding (e.g. flows reaching
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

or exceeding 5-year to 20-year flows), particularly on the Central Coast (Kingcome River),
Vancouver Island, South Coast and Fraser Valley. Current hydrologic modelling from the US
National Weather Service is not indicating a high likelihood of flood flows in the Nooksack River,
however this outlook could change through the weekend, particularly if the forecasted storm
track shifts further south or stalls.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
