Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch - Shuswap
High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson River
ISSUED: 8:00AM June 13, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

    •    Shuswap Region including South Thompson River tributaries (Seymour River, Eagle
         River, Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries)

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Thompson River

Snowmelt at most elevations through the upper reaches of the South Thompson have raised
stream levels through the region. Streamflow and water levels are at or approaching 2-year
flows in many of the tributaries, including the Adams River near Squilax (Water Survey of
Canada gauge 08LD001), Seymour River near Seymour Arm (08LE027), Eagle River near
Malakwa (08LE024), Shuswap River near Enderby (08LC002), and Shuswap Lake and the South
Thompson at Chase (08LE031).

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, anticipating prolonged rainfall Monday into Tuesday, with precipitation totals the 20 to
40 mm, and potentially more over higher terrain. River levels are expected to see increased
rates of rise later Monday and into Tuesday in response to on-going snowmelt and additional
runoff from rainfall, and later into the week for lake-fed river systems. On the South Thompson
River, on-going moderate rises are expected through the week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
