Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Ashnola (NEW), Similkameen (NEW), Tulameen (UPGRADE)
High Streamflow Advisory – Coldwater, Central Coast, South Coast, Vancouver Island
Issued: 11:45 AM December 10, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Ashnola River

   •   Similkameen River tributaries including headwater tributaries south of Princeton and
       Keremeos

   •   Tulameen River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Coldwater River

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River, Wannock River and surrounding basins

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains and Metro Vancouver

   •   Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the United States Pacific Northwest and the south
and central coasts of British Columbia through this week. Observed rainfall since Monday has
been in the 45 to 100 mm range for the Fraser Valley, 30 to 80mm in the south coast, and up to
80 to 160 mm along West Vancouver Island. The next period of heavy rain is underway
Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued yellow (Hazardous weather may cause
damage, disruption, or health impacts. Impacts are moderate, localized and/or short-term) and
orange (Severe weather is likely to cause significant damage, disruption, or health impacts.
Impacts are major, widespread and/or may last a few days) level rainfall warnings through the
region, identifying total precipitation amounts today 90 to 130 mm in the Fraser Valley through
Manning Park, and 40 to 70mm through most of the Metro Vancouver area.

Temperatures are expected to rise through the day, with freezing levels forecasted to rise to
2500 m elevation. Shallow snowpack is being observed around the mid and upper elevations of
the region, with conditions to produce rain-on-snow and additional streamflow runoff.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River Conditions:

Rivers have begun to rise in response to rainfall overnight. Current observed streamflow at real-
time river gauges is between the 1-year and 2-year return period flow.

Rivers are expected to rise through Wednesday in response to heavy rain and snowmelt, with
peak levels forecasted later Wednesday, and into Thursday for larger river systems.

There is the potential for rainfall to push across the Cascade Mountains and into interior
watersheds, with high flows being possible in the Tulameen River, Ashnola River and areas
through eastern Manning and Cathedral Parks (Similkameen River tributaries south of Princeton
to Keremeos). Some weather models are showing the potential for significant rainfall in these
areas, and streamflows exceeding the 10-year to 20-year flow.
Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

Review personal flood emergency plans and be prepared to implement if needed. Information
on local flood response, including evacuation alerts and orders, is available from local
governments and First Nations.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
