Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED: Flood Watch – Central Coast (NEW), Vancouver Island North (NEW)
South, East, West, Central
MAINTAINED - High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast
ISSUED: 7:30 AM November 29, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining or upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Central Coast including areas around Bella Coola, Wuikinuxv, Kingcome and
       surrounding tributaries (UPGRADED)

   •   Northern Vancouver Island (UPGRADED)

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island

   •   Southern Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory:

   •   North Coast including areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley Bay, Kemano and
       surrounding tributaries

The third in a series of atmospheric rivers is expected to impact Coastal British Columbia
beginning Monday evening. This is forecast to bring a prolonged period of heavy rainfall across
the region through Wednesday. Environment and Climate Change Canada are warning of 100-
200 mm of rain for exposed areas on Vancouver Island and the Central Coast; 80-120 mm for
inland areas of Central Coast, including the Bella Coola valley, and 50-100 mm for the south
coast. Temperatures are expected to warm through this event and will lead to additional runoff
from snowmelt at low and mid elevations

Rivers are expected to experience a brief period of easing river levels on Monday prior to the
onset of this next round of rainfall. River levels are expected to see rapid rises on Tuesday and
through Wednesday. Current weather forecasts and river forecasts are indicating that
significant flood risks will be present over the Tuesday and Wednesday period from this
atmospheric river, particularly in the Central Coast and Northern Vancouver Island, including
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
the Bella Coola River and tributaries (Nuxalk), Wannock River (Wuikinuxv) and Kingcome River
(Dzawada’enuxv). Flood risks will also persist on Vancouver Island, including regions of northern
and western Vancouver Island that are expected to experience heaviest rainfall rates, and on
central, eastern and southern Vancouver Island where high flow conditions persist from the
weekend’s atmospheric river.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
