Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch– Chilcotin (DOWNGRADED)
ISSUED: 11:00AM July 5th, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Chilcotin, including Taseko River, Chilko River, Chilcotin River, Big Creek and
       surrounding tributaries draining from the Chilcotin Mountains

Extremely hot temperatures last week in the Chilcotin region triggered an unprecedented
amount of snowmelt at the higher elevations. Flows have reached peak levels from this event
and remain high.

The status of rivers in the region as of 07:05 PDT today:

   •   Chilcotin River near Hanceville (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MB012) is currently
       flowing at approximately 500 m3/s (between 20 and 50-year flow) and is past peak
       levels from this event. Flows are expected to continue to recede through this week.

   •   Taseko River near the outlet of Taseko Lake (08GE002) is flowing at approximately 141
       m3/s (below a 2-year flow) and is down from a peak of nearly 250 m3/s (20-year flow)
       over the past few days. Flows are expected to continue to recede through this week

   •   The Chilko River near Redstone (08MA001) is currently flowing at approximately 404
       m3/s (between 10 and 20-year) and is down from a peak of approximately 475 m3/s (50-
       year flow) over the past few days. Flows are expected to continue to recede through
       this week

   • Chilko River at outlet of Chilko Lake (08MA002) is currently flowing at 186 m3/s (10-year
       to 20-year flow) and is just past peak levels from this event. Flows are expected to drop
       through this week

The CLEVER Model results can be found at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
