Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Kliniklini River (UPGRADED), High Streamflow Advisory – Central
Coast (Bella Coola) & South Coast (Homathko River) MAINTAINED
Issued: 11:30AM June 30, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for the Kliniklini River including:

      Kliniklini River and tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the Central Coast and
South Coast including:

      Bella Coola River and tributaries

      Homathko River and tributaries

Extremely hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered an extraordinary amount
of snowmelt at the higher elevations along the Central Coast and South Coast. Since Saturday,
Bella Coola Airport has reached maximum temperatures above 35°C for four consecutive days.
The previous maximum temperature record for Bella Coola was 32.7 °C set in 1995. Automated
snow weather stations (1300‐1600m) are snow‐free, however satellite analysis is indicating
snow coverage in upper elevations throughout the watershed. The few automated snow
weather stations in the province with remaining snowpack are melting at extraordinary rates of
50‐100 mm per day of snow water equivalent. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC)
forecasts cooling temperatures beginning today and through the weekend. Snowmelt rates are
expected to lessen, and rivers are forecast to begin receding soon.

The Bella Coola River above Hammer River (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08FB011) is flowing
at 500 m3/s (between 2 and 5‐year flow). The Kliniklini River east channel (main) near the
mouth (08GE002) reached 2030 m3/s (between 10 and 20‐year flow) early this morning and is
receding gradually from the daily snowmelt peak. The Homathko River at the Mouth (08GD004)
reached 1740 m3/s (5‐year flow) early this morning and is receding gradually from the daily
snowmelt peak.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
