Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – South Coast and Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser tributaries and Central Coast
Issued: 3:00 PM January 25, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky and North Shore
       Mountains

   •   Fraser Valley – North including tributaries from Port Coquitlam to Harrison

   •   Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lower Fraser River tributaries including areas around Pemberton and Lillooet River
       tributaries, Fraser Valley – East (tributaries around Abbotsford, Hope), and Fraser
       Canyon

Weather Synopsis:

A series of potent storms is forecast to impact coastal British Columbia this weekend and next
week, with an initial storm Friday, again on Saturday-Sunday, and another into Monday.
Current forecasting is indicating the strongest atmospheric river event making landfall on
Monday, with the potential for additional rainfall in the middle of next week. The heaviest
rainfall is currently forecast over West Vancouver Island and the Coast Mountains. In these
areas, total rainfall from Saturday to Wednesday is forecasted to be 200 to 300 mm, with the
potential for localized areas to receive up to 400 mm. Areas around Howe Sound, Sunshine
Coast, other areas of Vancouver Island, Metro Vancouver, Sea-to-Sky, and Fraser Valley are
forecast to receive 70 to 250 mm of precipitation. Temperatures are expected to warm during
this period, and snowmelt at lower and mid-elevations will provide additional runoff to rivers.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise over the weekend and into next week. Peak river levels are expected
to occur in most areas on Sunday to Tuesday and may extend from Tuesday to Thursday for
lake-driven rivers. Hydrologic modelling is indicating a high likelihood for moderate flood
conditions (2-year to 10-year flows) to develop in areas with the heaviest rainfall, and a chance
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

that more severe flooding (reaching or exceeding 20-year flows) could occur. On Vancouver
Island this includes the Gold River, Salmon River, Somass/Sproat Rivers, Englishman River,
Qualicum River, Chemainus River, Cowichan River and other surrounding rivers. On the South
Coast areas of concern for flooding include: tributaries around Howe Sound including the
Stawamus River, Squamish River, Mamquam River, Cheakamus River; tributaries around the
North Shore Mountains and Fraser Valley north; and the Sunshine Coast. Other adjacent areas
are currently forecast to have lower peak flows (around 2-year flows).

There remains uncertainty over the amounts of rainfall that will occur and the locations of
heaviest rainfall. Elevated flood hazards may be possible in nearby areas, particularly if the
storm tracks or patterns change from what is currently forecast.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
