Ministry of Forests

UPGRAED: Flood Watch – South Coast and Vancouver Island
Issued: 11:30AM January 12, 2023

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading a to a Flood Watch for:

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Howe Sound including tributaries around Squamish

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   East Vancouver Island

   •   South Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley

   •   North Vancouver Island

   •   West Vancouver Island

An atmospheric river is impacting coastal BC, with moderate to heavy rain anticipated through
Thursday and into Friday. Precipitation totals of 15 mm to 60 mm have been observed since
yesterday. Environment and Climate Change Canada have rainfall warnings in effect across the
region, with rainfall totals up to 100 mm. Higher rainfall amounts are forecast over higher
terrain. Temperatures are also rising, with freezing levels in the 1800 m to 2300 m range
expected into Friday. This will contribute to additional runoff from snowmelt at mid-elevations.

Rivers are expected to rise through Thursday, with current peak levels anticipated on Friday and
into Saturday. Weather forecasts currently have the heaviest rainfall anticipated in the North
Shore Mountains, Howe Sound area. Weather forecasts and hydrologic modelling is indicating
the potential for precipitation totals and river flows to reach or exceed 5-year return period
values. Overbank flooding is possible at these levels.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
