Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – East Kootenay (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – West Kootenay (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 11:00 AM June 12, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   East Kootenay

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Upper Columbia including the Kicking Horse River, Illecillewaet River and tributaries
       around Invermere, Radium, Golden and Revelstoke

   •   West Kootenay

Rising snowmelt rates and unsettled and showery weather has been leading to rising river
levels throughout the region. A number of rivers through the region are currently at or
approaching 2-year return period flows, particularly in the East Kootenay. This includes the Elk
River near Fernie (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NK002), Bull River near Gardner
(08NG002), Kootenay River at Fort Steele (08NG065), Kaslo River below Kemp Creek
(08NH008), Slocan River near Crescent Valley (08NJ013) and tributaries around Nelson and
Creston.

A low-pressure system is expected to migrate into the region from Montana tonight, bringing a
period of wet weather to the region on Monday into Tuesday. Environment and Climate Change
Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the Elk Valley and East Kootenay, which is
expected to experience the heaviest rainfall, with likely total rainfall amounts in the 30-45 mm.
Higher amounts are possible over higher terrain, and Environment and Climate Change Canada
is indicating that there is some uncertainty with respect to the exact trajectory of the low and
this will be a factor impacting the amount of rain in each region. Moderate rainfall (20-30 mm)
is expected in other areas, including the West Kootenay and Upper Columbia.

Current hydrologic modelling is indicating risks for flooding over the Monday and Tuesday
period, particularly in the East Kootenay region. Flows in the 5-year to 10-year return period
range are likely, with flows in the 20-year range or higher being possible. Given the uncertainty
in the position of the weather pattern and heaviest rainfall, it is possible that adjacent areas in
Ministry of Forests

the West Kootenay and Upper Columbia also experience significant flows (e.g. exceeding 5-year
to 10-year flows).

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
