Ministry of Forests

Flood Warning – Boundary (UPGRADED)
Flood Watch –Kootenay
Issued: 12:00 PM May 4, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining the following:

Flood Warning

   •   Boundary including the Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries

Flood Watch

   •   West Kootenay (southern regions)

   •   East Kootenay (southern regions)

Weather Synopsis:

The long period of hot weather is expected to end on Friday. A trough of low pressure is
expected to move into B.C. on Friday and Saturday, bringing the potential for rainfall in the
region, and cooling temperatures.

There is currently uncertainty on the location and severity of potential rainfall late in the week,
with current forecasts indicating the potential for significant amounts of precipitation (20-40+
mm) in areas. Embedded convective activity is expected to accompany this rainfall and may
lead to localized areas with more intense precipitation.

River Conditions:

Rapid snowmelt has been observed throughout the region in response to the extended period
of heat.

Rivers have been rising in response to elevated snowmelt runoff. Flows in the West Kettle River
at Westbridge (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NN03), Kettle River near Westbridge
(08NN026), Granby River near Grand Forks (08NN002) are currently flowing in approximately
the 2-year to 5-year flow range.

Additional river rises from snowmelt runoff alone are expected on Thursday and Friday. With
moderate to heavy rainfall forecast for Friday and Saturday, significant flood hazard will be
present throughout the region, with flows in 10-year to 20-year return period levels likely on
rivers in the Boundary region. Severe flooding (e.g. approaching 2018 levels, or reaching or
Ministry of Forests

exceeding 50-year return period flows) may be possible in areas that receive high rainfall
amounts (e.g. in excess of 40 mm). In the Kootenays, flows over the weekend are anticipated to
reach 2-year to 5-year flows, with higher flows possible in regions that receive heavier rainfall
(30-40mm+). Peak river levels are expected on Saturday through Monday.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
