Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch –Lower Thompson (Bonaparte River and Cache Creek area) (DOWNGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Guichon Creek (DOWNGRADED), Salmon River (DOWNGRADED),
South Thompson (NEW), Shuswap (NEW), Similkameen, Okanagan, North Thompson, Nicola
Issued: 330 PM May 15, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is advising the following currently in effect:

Flood Watch

   •   Lower Thompson Region including Cache Creek, Deadman River, Criss Creek, Bonaparte
       River and surrounding areas around Cache Creek and Skeetchestn (DOWNGRADED)

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   Guichon Creek (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Salmon River including areas around Falkland and Salmon Arm (DOWNGRADED)

   •   Shuswap Region and Secwépemc Territory including tributaries around Splatsin, Salmon
       Arm (except Salmon River), Sicamous, Enderby and surrounding areas (NEW)

   •   South Thompson River including tributaries around Chase, Tk’emlúps te Secwépemc and
       surrounding areas (NEW)

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River , Lower Similkameen and
       other tributaries

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Syilx Territory, Vernon,
       Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater, Blue River and
       surrounding areas

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Spius Creek, Coldwater River and surrounding
       areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather. The highest
temperatures are expected from today through Tuesday. Daytime highs will be 10 to 15
Ministry of Forests

degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees above what
is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last through the
week with temperatures in the upper-20’s to mid-30°C range.

River Conditions:

In some areas, including the Bonaparte River, Guichon Creek and the Salmon River, flows have
stabilized and are slowly receding. Snow is now diminished enough in the headwaters of these
rivers that on-going flood hazard from snowmelt is not expected.

Through other rivers in the region, accelerated snowmelt is leading to rises in rivers. Most rivers
are anticipated to reach 2-year to 5-year flow levels (e.g. typical annual maximum flows) over
the next few days (May 15-17), with rises to higher flows possible in areas later in the week.
Due to the prolonged hot weather, rapid snowmelt and rising flows is anticipated throughout
the coming week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

     •   Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

     •   Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
         streamflow rivers or streams

     •   Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
         drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
