Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Northeast BC (NEW)
Flood Watch – Liard River (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Swift River and Northwest BC (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 4:30 PM June 21, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a Flood Watch for:

    •    Northeast British Columbia including areas around Fort Nelson and the Northern
         Rocky Mountains

    •    Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
         Lake

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Swift River, and other streams and rivers in the most northwest section of the
         province

Flows have generally been easing through the region over the past few days. A low-pressure
system is expected to pass across British Columbia over the next few days. This is forecast to
bring moderate to heavy rainfall for areas of northeast BC, with upwards of 30-50 mm forecast
through Thursday. Higher, or lower, amounts of rainfall are possible.

River levels are expected to see rapid rises on Wednesday and into Thursday in response to
rainfall. This includes areas around Fort Nelson and in the northern Rocky Mountains, including
the Muskwa River, Kechika River, Toad River and surrounding tributaries.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
