Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Peace Region (UPGRADED)
ISSUED: 8:45 AM May 27, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Peace Region, including tributaries around Fort St. John, Taylor, Chetwynd, Moberly
       Lake, Pine Pass, Hudson’s Hope and Dawson Creek

A low-pressure system is expected to set up across British Columbia on Friday, bringing the risk
of heavy rainfall to the Peace Region. Rain is expected to begin falling on Friday afternoon and
end by late Saturday. There is still uncertainty of the location of the most intense rainfall,
however there is relatively high confidence in the overall weather pattern. Environment and
Climate Change Canada has issued a rainfall warning for the region, with 30 to 50 mm expected
across the region, except near Hudson’s Hope and Chetwynd where 60 to 80 mm is expected.
There will be an easterly flow to this pattern, with upslope conditions on the eastern slopes of
the Rocky Mountains which may lead to higher rainfall amounts. Embedded convection and
thunderstorms may also result in more localized higher rainfall amounts.

High streamflow is expected with the coming rainfall and active snowmelt runoff that is
underway. Historically, rainfall events in the range of what is currently forecast have led to
erosion and flood impacts through the region. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the
potential for 5-year to 10-year flows, and potentially higher, in areas around Hudson’s Hope,
Moberly Lake, Chetwynd, Taylor, Chetwynd and Fort St. John. Given the current uncertainty in
the storm track, it is possible that adjacent areas also receive heavy rainfall. Flows are expected
to reach peak levels late Saturday and into Sunday.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
