Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Watch – Morice River (UPGRADED)
Issued: 13:30 PM June 30th, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for the Morice River including:

    •    Morice River near Houston

Temperatures within the Skeena watershed has been sufficiently high to spur snow melt at all
elevations. This snowmelt has caused many systems to rise; the most impacted within the
Skeena watershed has been the Morice River. Weather forecasts also indicate the potential for
showers (<20 mm of rain) within the region over the next three days. Currently, the Morice
River near Houston (08ED002) is flowing at 353 m3/s, a 10-20 year return period flow, and is
forecast to rise to a 20 year return period into Thursday and Friday before very slowly receding.
It is forecast to remain high (above a 10 year return period) over the weekend. Showers are
forecast for the region over the next three days (20 mm of rain over three days); although not a
significant amount, rain will add to snowmelt and will be problematic for systems that are
already swollen from snowmelt.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
