Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Flood Warning – Coquihalla (NEW), Sumas
Flood Watch – South Coast
ISSUED: 11:30 AM November 28, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading or maintaining a Flood Warning for:

   •   Coquihalla River (NEW)

   •   Sumas River including Sumas Prairie and surround area

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for the South Coast including:

   •   Sea-to-Sky including areas around Squamish, Whistler and Pemberton

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Howe Sound

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Lower Mainland including areas along the Fraser Valley and areas around Hope

The second in a series of atmospheric rivers has been impacting BC since Saturday afternoon.
Rainfall amounts in the 35-60mm range have been observed around Metro Vancouver, Sea-to-
Sky and Fraser Valley, and upwards of 100-130 mm over local mountain terrain. Up to 40mm of
snowmelt has been observed and is adding to the runoff in rivers. Heavy rainfall is expected to
continue through Sunday morning and ease by afternoon, and later in the afternoon towards
the eastern Fraser Valley, Fraser Canyon and into the Interior.

Rainfall and snowmelt in the Sumas River drainage is leading to high flows along the Sumas
River. On the Nooksack River, the Northwest River Forecast Centre (NOAA) is currently
forecasting the potential for the Nooksack River to reach overbank flood stage later today at
Everson, with flood water spilling into the Sumas River expected. A flood warning has been
issued by the National Weather Service (US) for Whatcom County and the Nooksack River.

Flood risks will continue through the day Sunday, with improved conditions expected on
smaller rivers by Sunday evening, and Monday for larger rivers. Additional Flood Warnings will
be issued through the remainder of Sunday and Monday, if required.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Another atmospheric river event is forming in the western Pacific Ocean and is expected to
make landfall late-Monday through Wednesday. Additional flood risks may be present for
coastal BC through next week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
