Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Kingcome River including tributaries (UPGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast, Northern Vancouver Island
(MAINTAINED)
Issued: 11:00 AM October 7, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Kingcome River including tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries around Stewart, Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and other coastal communities

   •   Central Coast including tributaries around Bella Coola, Rivers Inlet, and other coastal
       communities

   •   Northern Vancouver Island including tributaries and smaller streams around Port Hardy,
       Port Alice, Zeballos, and Tahsis

Weather Synopsis:

A frontal system that arrived yesterday (Sunday) brought moderate to heavy precipitation to
much of the coast, with precipitation continuing today (Monday). Although precipitation is
widespread, the centre of the storm has moved generally southwards down the coast and on
Monday morning is currently directed at the southern portion of the Central Coast and
northwestern Vancouver Island.
As of 11:00 am today, recorded precipitation for the past 36 hours varied widely across the coast.
In general, the highest 36-hour precipitation totals are approximately 70-80 mm on the Central
Coast and northern Vancouver Island. However, precipitation has been even higher in some
areas, with one weather station southeast of Bella Coola reporting over 140 mm. Precipitation is
expected to taper off over Monday and Tuesday as the storm front dissipates.

River Conditions:

Rivers are high across the region from several weeks of recent precipitation. Saturated ground
conditions and higher flows will make rivers potentially more responsive to additional
precipitation. Additional runoff contributions from rain-on-snow may further amplify increases
in river levels.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Peak flows will likely occur on Monday-Tuesday for most systems. Some coastal rivers have
already peaked and are now declining, although flows remain generally high. The River Forecast
Centre’s current hydrological models indicate that peak flows for gauged rivers may reach levels
corresponding to a 1-2 year or 2-5 year return period interval; however, shifts in storm track or
intensity could cause higher flows. It is also important to note that flow impacts may be highest
in ungauged systems.

Water levels in the Kingcome River are currently rising rapidly as higher flows from runoff are
bolstered by a rising tide. Measurements from the gauge at Kingcome Village Upstream indicate
that the water level was approximately 4.7 m and rising at 10:40 am, coinciding with low tide.
The combination of higher flows and rising tide may drive the water level up to or over the Flood
Watch level of 5.1 m in the coming hours.



Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
