Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Englishman River and South Vancouver Island
Issued: 14:00 December 23, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a Flood Watch for:

    •    Englishman River

    •    South Vancouver Island

A significant rainfall pattern is moving across the southern coast of B.C. this Saturday
(tomorrow) into early next week. The snowstorm during this past week has incurred significant
snow accumulation on Vancouver Island, increasing snow water equivalent seasonal totals to
about 190-200 mm at higher elevations. Moreover, heavy warmer rain falling on the snowpacks
may cause large volumes of snowmelt, which would induce extra flooding risks to the stream
systems in south Vancouver Island.

The current hydrologic modeling indicates that the streamflow in the Englishman River is
expected to exceed 150 m3/s on Saturday (tomorrow) or Sunday. Streamflows at several other
hydrometric stations on south Vancouver Island may also rise to or over the 5-year return
period levels this weekend into early next week. Details of forecasts from the hydrologic
models can be found at the following links:

The COFFEE Model 5-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html

The CLEVER Model 10-day forecast: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
