Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Upper Columbia, East Kootenay, Chilcotin Region, Homathko River (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser, South Thompson, Nicola, West Kootenay, Okanagan,
Similkameen (New)
Issued: 3:00 PM June 20, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Upper Columbia and tributaries

   •   East Kootenay

   •   Middle Fraser/Chilcotin region tributaries draining from the Coast Mountains east of
       Lillooet and Williams Lake

   •   Homathko River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining/issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the BC Interior
including tributaries in the:

   •   Peace Region, including areas around Hudson’s Hope, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge,
       Dawson Creek, Fort St. John and surrounding areas

   •   Upper Fraser (New)

   •   South Thompson and Nicola (New)

   •   West Kootenay, Okanagan, and Similkameen (New)

Weather Synopsis:

An unsettled low-pressure system is approaching and expected to bring wrap around
precipitation from Alberta across the BC interior through Sunday. On Friday and Saturday,
heavy rain is forecasted for south-east BC in the Rocky Mountains, Purcell Mountains, and
across to the typical lee side of the Coast Mountains in west central and south-west BC. The
flow of moisture during this event will be from the east, creating the potential for enhanced
upslope rainfall on the eastern slopes of mountain ranges (Rocky Mountains, Purcells, Selkirks,
Cascades, Coast Mountains). Wet weather will continue into Sunday with easing rainfall rates,
although there is potential for additional rainfall on Monday. Precipitation locations and totals
will likely be highly variable across southern BC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River Conditions:

Flow conditions vary widely across the regions in the path of the precipitation. Many rivers
draining higher elevations (e.g., the Upper Fraser and Upper Columbia regions) are currently
flowing at near-normal levels for the time of year, with flows relatively higher as a result of
recent snowmelt and rainfall. However, some areas are much drier (e.g., the East Kootenay
region) with relatively lower flows. Flow responses to upcoming precipitation may vary widely
depending on pre-existing river conditions.

Flows remain elevated in areas of the Peace region that received recent rainfall. Although no
significant additional precipitation is expected in this region over the next several days,
localized storms could drive flows higher in some river systems.
Flows are expected to rise starting Friday, with peaks likely Saturday into Sunday, possibly
extending into Monday. Current hydrological modelling indicates the possibility of flows
reaching or exceeding the 5-year to 20-year return period range in areas receiving the highest
rainfall totals. Uncertainty remains high for rainfall amounts and locations from now through
the weekend. If rainfall totals reach or exceed the high-end scenario of current weather
modelling, flows greater than the 20-year return period could be possible.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
