Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Boundary and Kootenay (UPGRADED)
Issued: 12:30 PM May 2, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Boundary including the Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries

   •   West Kootenay (southern regions)

   •   East Kootenay (southern regions)

Weather Synopsis:

Sunny conditions with warm temperatures and high freezing levels are anticipated through this
week. Daily high temperatures in the upper-20°C to low-30°C range on Tuesday through
Thursday. On Thursday the ridge of high pressure is forecast to weaken, with an upper low
trough approaching B.C. on Friday, bringing precipitation to the region. There is currently
uncertainty on the location and severity of potential rainfall late in the week, with current
forecasting indicating the potential for significant amounts of precipitation (30-60mm) in areas.

River Conditions:

Rivers have begun rising through the region. At mid-elevations, snowmelt has been rapid over
the weekend, with daily rates of melt in the 20-40 mm range. Snowpack ripening is being
observed at upper elevations, and with continuing hot temperatures through this week,
snowmelt runoff is expected to increase substantially.

On-going rises in rivers are expected across the region due to hot temperatures this week, with
increasing potential for flood hazard in other rivers over the coming days. The potential for
heavier precipitation on Friday and Saturday could lead to a period of significant flood hazard
through the region late this week. This includes areas around the southern portions of the
region and in watersheds draining mid-to-high elevations, including the Kettle River, Granby
River, Moyie River, Salmo River and similar rivers and tributaries. Flows primarily due to
accelerated snowmelt are forecast to reach the 2-year to 10-year range in noted areas by
Friday. Additional rises (20-year to 100-year flows or higher, e.g. similar to 2018 peak flows) are
possible on Saturday and Sunday, depending on precipitation amounts later this week.

The public is advised:
Ministry of Forests

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
