Ministry of Forests

Flood Watch – Shuswap River (UPGRADE), Bonaparte River
High Streamflow Advisory –South Thompson, Similkameen, Okanagan, North Thompson, Nicola
Issued: 1030 AM May 18, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is advising the following currently in effect:

Flood Watch

   •   Shuswap River (UPGRADED)

   •   Bonaparte River

High Streamflow Advisory

   •   South Thompson River and including tributaries around Chase, Tk’emlúps te
       Secwépemc, Splatsin, Salmon Arm, Salmon River, Sicamous, Enderby and surrounding
       areas and surrounding areas

   •   Similkameen, including the Ashnola River, Tulameen River, Lower Similkameen and
       other tributaries

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries around Syilx Territory, Vernon,
       Kelowna, Penticton and surrounding areas

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater, Blue River and
       surrounding areas

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including Guichon Creek (DOWNGRADED), Spius Creek,
       Coldwater River and surrounding areas including Upper Nicola and Lower Nicola

Advisories ENDED

   •   Other Lower Thompson tributaries including the Deadman River and Cache Creek



Weather Synopsis:

The unseasonably warm weather will continue for most of the week with temperatures in the
upper 20s and low 30s. An upper trough of low pressure will introduce some instability, and
some wind shear (wind speed and/or direction changing with height). This will produce some
Ministry of Forests

thunderstorms for parts of central and southern BC today, and Friday. A period of rainfall on
Sunday and Monday may contribute to rising flood hazard through the region.

River Conditions:

In higher elevation fed watersheds, river levels have continued to rise due to on-going

accelerated snowmelt runoff from this past week.

Rising flows are occurring on the South Thompson River and tributaries (Eagle River, Adams

River, Seymour River, Shuswap River), and are expected to continue to rise into the weekend.

On the Shuswap River, flows are expected to continue to rise. The Shuswap River at Enderby

(08LC002) is currently flowing at 360 m3/s (2-year flow) and expected to rise up to 430 m3/s

(5-year flow) by the weekend.

The North Thompson River is still rising, with the current flow at the Water Survey of Canada

gauge (08LB064) at McLure of 2020 m3/s. Small additional rises expected today (remaining

below 2100 m3/s) before easing into the weekend.

The Bonaparte River remains high but continues to see on-going declines in flow.

In other areas, snowmelt runoff has reached maximum rates, and rivers have reached peak

level and remain flowing high into the weekend.

Rainfall late this weekend has the potential to lead to another period of river rises late this

weekend and into next week. If rainfall is heavy, emerging flood hazard is possible

throughout the region. At this point, while the overall weather pattern change forecasted

over the weekend has a high degree of confidence, there is significant uncertainty over the

amounts of rainfall and locations of where the heaviest rainfall will occur.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:
Ministry of Forests

      •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

      •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
           streamflow rivers or streams

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
