Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory: Tulameen River
ISSUED: 12:00 PM December 10, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Tulameen River

A frontal system is forecast to bring precipitation to the south coast of BC the weekend of Dec
11-12th. Freezing levels are currently forecast to rise between 1000 – 1500 m, resulting in rain
and above-freezing temperatures at mid to low elevations. Current weather and hydrologic
forecast indicate a portion of this precipitation could fall as rain within the headwaters of the
Tulameen River, translating into the potential for higher river flows especially within the
smaller, upstream parts of this watershed. River impacts will depend on how much of this
precipitation falls as rain, how much of the watershed receives rain, and how high freezing
levels climb on Saturday, Dec 11. Current hydrologic forecasts indicate the potential for
increased flows beginning Saturday and peaking into Sunday to Monday; these forecasts
indicate the potential for flows around their 10-year return period thresholds within smaller,
headwater portions of the Tulameen river system, with the potential for return period flows
nearing their 2-year thresholds further downstream at Princeton. At this point, forecasts for the
Tulameen at Princeton are lower than peaks experienced at the end of November and early
December. This pulse of water will cause the downstream Similkameen River to rise Sunday
into Monday; however, the Similkameen River is currently not part of this High Streamflow
Advisory as up-to-date forecasts indicate potential rises below 2-year return period flows.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
