Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser
ISSUED: 7:30AM June 23, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Upper Fraser River including areas from Prince George and upstream tributaries
         through the Robson Valley

Flows have remained elevated over the past week due to on-going snowmelt and runoff from
precipitation. Rainfall over the past two days in the headwaters is leading to rising river levels
throughout the tributaries in the Upper Fraser, with 10-25 mm of precipitation being observed
in most areas. Areas of high flows include the Bowron River, McGregor River and Fraser River
around McBride, Hansard, Shelley and through Prince George to South Fort George.

River levels are approaching or at 2-year return period levels. Additional rises are expected
through Thursday, with flows expected in the 2-year to 5-year range. Flows should see some
easing on Friday.

In the longer range, warming temperatures into the weekend and next week are expected to
lead to accelerated snowmelt rates in mountain areas. This may bring a prolonged period of
higher flows this weekend and next week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests
