Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena Region
Issued: 08:30 AM May 5, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Skeena Region, including the Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa,
           Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and Terrace

Weather Synopsis:

After a relatively cool start to April, warm temperatures arrived April 28th and remained steady
over the past week. The automated snow weather station Lu Lake (4B15P), located at 1308 m
elevation, measured an average temperature of 0.5℃ from April 21-27. Over the following
week (April 28-May 4), the station measured an average of 8.3℃. A weather pattern shift is
expected today bringing cooler and wetter conditions for the upcoming weekend.

River Conditions:

Rivers have been steadily rising over the past week due to snowmelt from the recent warm
weather. As of this morning, the automated snow weather station 4B15P Lu Lake has melted
approximately 35% of the seasonal snow pack, and 4B18P Cedar-Kiteen has melted about 25%.
Smaller creeks in the region have reached 2-year return flows, including Buck Creek at the
Mouth (08EE013) and M3 Creek near Smithers (08EF006). Quicker rises may occur in these
creeks and other rivers in the Skeena-Bulkley region over the weekend depending on location
and intensity of forecast rain. Another snow station, 4B17P Tsai Creek, has yet to measure
significant snowmelt this season. The region will continue to remain at risk for several weeks,
especially if adverse weather conditions occur.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning
Ministry of Forests

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
