Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Tulameen River, Similkameen River, Coldwater
River, Nicola River
ISSUED: 7:45 AM November 27, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory:

    •    Tulameen River and Similkameen River

    •    Coldwater River and Lower Nicola River

A second in a series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the British Columbia Coast through the
weekend. Rainfall is expected to be heavy on the South Coast, with the potential for spillover of
moist air across the Cascade and Coast Mountains and into Interior watersheds. Warming is
also expected to contribute to snowmelt at mid-elevations and rain-on-snow runoff.

River levels are expected to see rises on Saturday and into Sunday. Flooding last week has
created increased vulnerabilities throughout the region and forecast flows, leading to increased
risks to impacts from forecasted flows.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
