Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson, South Thompson, Upper Columbia, Upper Fraser,
Cariboo
Issued: 12:00 PM September 26, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Thompson region including tributary rivers around Blue River, Clearwater and
       surrounding areas

   •   South Thompson region including tributary rivers around Adams and Seymour Rivers and
       surrounding areas

   •   Upper Columbia including tributary rivers around Valemount, Lake Revelstoke and
       surrounding areas

   •   Upper Fraser River including the McGregor River, Robson Valley and surrounding areas

   •   Cariboo region including headwaters of the Quesnel River and surrounding areas
   ***NOTE: The ongoing job action by the B.C. General Employees’ Union (BCGEU)
   and the Professional Employees Association (PEA) has affected River Forecast Centre
   (RFC) data systems and work processes. Due to these impacts, RFC staff are unable to
   access the full range of information that is typically used to generate forecasts and
   advisories. As a result, current forecasts have a higher degree of uncertainty and should
   be interpreted with caution.***


Weather Synopsis:

Another in a series of storm systems has arrived on coastal British Columbia. The current system
is centered on the Central Coast before moving southward and targeting Vancouver Island and
the South Coast. Based on the direction of flow of the storm, there is risk of moderate to heavy
rain spilling over into the Interior. Areas at risk with heaver rainfall totals (20-50 mm, possibly
more) include the headwaters of the North and South Thompson, Upper Fraser, Upper Columbia,
and Cariboo regions beginning on Saturday.

River Conditions:

No major flooding is expected at this time, but rivers may experience a rapid increase in flows,
particularly in smaller watersheds and streams. In some areas, notably the Upper Fraser, flows
are already higher due to precipitation last weekend, which may amplify the effects of the
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

upcoming storm. Rivers are expected to begin rising Saturday evening and likely peak on Sunday.
Heavy rainfall could exacerbate runoff from areas that experienced wildfires this past summer.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
