Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior (Whiteman, Salmon)
ISSUED: 1:00 PM May 14, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Interior Rivers between Vernon, Salmon Arm and Falkland including the
         Whiteman River, Salmon River and surrounding tributaries

Streamflow in the region has been high over the past week or two due to snowmelt and
repeated precipitation. A series of weather systems is expected to pass over British Columbia
today and tomorrow, bringing modest warming and showers in the BC Interior. Precipitation
forecasts from Environment and Climate Change weather modelling is indicating the potential
for 5-20 mm of rainfall over areas of the north-west Okanagan (Okanagan-Thompson Plateau)
and areas around Salmon Arm and Falkland from Saturday through into Monday. This is
expected to be accompanied by rising freezing level up to as much as 2500m on Sunday. There
is uncertainty over areas which will receive the highest amounts of precipitation, and adjacent
areas of the South Interior, including the Shuswap, Okanagan and Nicola-Thompson regions
may also experience a higher streamflow in response to rain and snowmelt.

Rivers in the region may experience moderate rises on Sunday (may exceed 2-year flows)
depending on the amount of precipitation that falls.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests
