Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast
ISSUED: 2:30 PM November 19, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory:

    •    North Coast including Haida Gwaii and areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley
         Bay, Kemano and surrounding areas

A period of adverse weather is expected to impact the North Coast over the weekend. On
Friday, a weak to moderate system is expected to bring moderate rainfall and snow. On
Saturday, an atmospheric river is expected to make landfall, bringing heavier rainfall and
warming temperatures from mid-day Saturday through to early Monday. Total rainfall amounts
across the event could reach 200-300mm, with highest amounts expected on the outer coast
between Prince Rupert and Ocean Falls, and decreasing amounts moving inland. Snowmelt at
low-to-mid elevations is expected to add to runoff. Inland areas, including the Bulkley Valley,
are not currently forecast to receive significant rainfall, however if the system pushes across the
Coast Mountains the region could also experience higher flows from rain and snowmelt.

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly overnight Saturday and through Sunday. Flooding is not
anticipated at this time, however forecasts and conditions can change rapidly.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
