Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island
Issued: 10:30AM January 11, 2023

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Coast and
Vancouver Island including:

   •     North Shore Mountains

   •     Howe Sound including tributaries around Squamish

   •     Sunshine Coast

   •     Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley

   •     North Vancouver Island

   •     West Vancouver Island

   •     Central Vancouver Island

   •     East Vancouver Island

   •     South Vancouver Island

An atmospheric river is anticipated to make landfall over south-west British Columbia beginning
Wednesday evening, with moderate to heavy precipitation in areas on Thursday and Friday,
with daily precipitation amounts in excess of 100 mm possible on exposed higher terrain.
Temperatures are also expected to rise, with freezing levels in the 1800 m to 2300 m range.
This will contribute to additional runoff from snowmelt at mid-elevations. Rivers are expected
to rise on Thursday, with current peak levels anticipated on Friday. Weather forecasts currently
have the heaviest rainfall anticipated in the North Shore Mountains, Howe Sound area, and
West Vancouver Island, however adjacent areas could anticipate similarly heavy rain and high
flows. Flows in the 2-year to 5-year range are forecasted, however higher flows are possible in
areas.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
