Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island, South Coast
Issued: 14:40 PM March 6, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Western Vancouver Island including rivers around Tofino, Ucluelet, Port Renfrew and
       surrounding areas

   •   Southern Vancouver Island including rivers around Duncan, Chemainus and surrounding
       areas

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky, North Shore Mountains,
       Metro Vancouver, and Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is approaching British Columbia bringing a period of wet weather from
Friday night through Sunday. Current weather forecasts indicate that West Vancouver Island
may expect 150 to 200 mm total precipitation for the event and South Coast Mountains may
expect 100 to 200 mm. The freezing levels will likely rise to 1500 m for the precipitation area.
Although confidence is high in the overall direction and characteristics of the storm, the exact
locations of heaviest precipitation are uncertain. The storm duration is expected to be about 24
to 36 hours, depending on the location.

River Conditions:

Runoff and streamflows will likely start to increase on Friday night, with flow responses
beginning on North Vancouver Island and proceeding south as the storm moves through the
region. Streamflow rises may be rapid. Significant flooding is not anticipated; however, localized
flooding (i.e., in smaller streams) and water pooling on roads are possible, particularly at lower
elevations and in areas with poor drainage.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety, and the public is urged to be cautious.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety . Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
