Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island and South Coast
ISSUED: 11:00AM September 16, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        West Vancouver Island

        South Vancouver Island

        Sunshine Coast

        Howe Sound and Sea‐to‐Sky including the Lillooet River

        North Shore Mountains

        Metro‐Vancouver

        Fraser Valley tributaries including the Chilliwack River

A strong storm system is approaching the coast and expected to arrive Friday morning. The
storm is forecast to provide moderate to heavy precipitation for western and southern
Vancouver Island, the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, the Lower Mainland and the Lower Fraser
Valley on Friday. The heaviest precipitation rates (up 5 to 10 mm per hour) are expected to
occur Friday afternoon and rainfall totals could reach 150 mm or more in the mountains. There
is still uncertainty in the exact location of the heaviest rainfall amounts.

The upcoming storm will mark a significant shift in streamflow runoff conditions which have
been dominated by low flow drought conditions through most of the summer. Rivers are
expected to rise rapidly in response to rainfall on Friday, with peak flows occurring late Friday
through Saturday. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for streamflow in the
2‐year to 20‐year flows in some areas which can lead to localized issues and flooding.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
