Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson, South Thompson, Upper Columbia
Issued: 10:45 AM October 17, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    North Thompson including small streams around Clearwater, Blue River and surrounding
         rivers

    •    South Thompson including small streams in the Chase and Sicamous areas

    •    Upper Columbia including small streams around Revelstoke, Rogers Pass and
         surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river event is making landfall on British Columbia and is expected to bring
heavier localized rainfall into areas of the Interior on Wednesday. Current weather modelling is
indicating the potential for heavier rainfall rates (up to 50 mm) in areas around Revelstoke and
surrounding areas to the west and east.

River Conditions:

Heavy rainfall may exacerbate runoff from areas that experienced severe wildfires this past
summer, including the Bush Creek fire. Localized high flows and erosion are possible in areas.
No significant flooding on larger rivers is expected.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
