Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory –Vancouver Island
ISSUED: 10:45 AM December 9, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Vancouver Island including North, West, Central, East and South regions

A frontal system is expected to sweep across coastal British Columbia over the next few days.
Moderate to heavy rainfall is expected across Vancouver Island on Friday and into Saturday.
Temperatures are expected to rise, with freezing levels approaching 1000-1500m. Rain-on-
snow and snowmelt runoff is expected to be limited to low and mid-elevations, with snow
expected over higher terrain.

Rivers are expected to experience rises on Friday and into Saturday. Moderate flows are
possible (approaching a 2-year to 5-year return period flow). Snowmelt runoff at lower
elevations may lead to minor flooding in low-lying areas.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
