Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Haida Gwaii
Issued: 2:00 PM November 7, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Stewart, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and other coastal communities

   •   Haida Gwaii

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river is forecast to impact Haida Gwaii and the North Coast beginning on Saturday
afternoon and continuing through Sunday. Weather models are currently forecasting a range of
80 to 160 mm total precipitation for the event in Kitimat. On Haida Gwaii, precipitation is forecast
between 50 to 100 mm at Sandspit. Freezing levels are predicted to be around 1500 to 2000 m
elevation.

River Conditions:

Rivers are flowing at normal to above normal levels in the North Coast and Haida Gwaii due to
recent storm events. Due to persistent rainfall events over the past few weeks, the soil moisture
for the North Coast and Haida Gwaii is saturated. The combination of relatively high river levels
and saturated soils means rivers are more susceptible to rapid rises even with moderate
precipitation totals.

It is also important to note that streamflow impacts may be especially severe in smaller streams,
many of which are not gauged. Smaller streams may respond to rainfall much more rapidly and
dramatically than larger rivers, with higher flows relative to their channel size.

Streamflows are expected to begin rising rapidly with the arrival of the heaviest rainfall by
Saturday evening, and flows may continue rising for several days. Peak flows in most systems are
anticipated to occur Sunday or early Monday.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
