Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River
Issued: 10:30 AM May 15, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the:

   •       Fraser River including areas upstream (Lheidli T'enneh, Prince George), through the
           Fraser Canyon, Nlaka’pamux, Hope, Sto:lo and Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that unseasonably hot weather is occurring across British Columbia.
Temperatures are forecast to remain high all week. Daytime highs temperatures are forecast to
be 10 to 15 degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees
above what is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last
through the week and into the weekend with temperatures in the upper-20’s to low-30’s °C for
most of the headwater regions of the Fraser River watershed.

River Conditions:

The Fraser River is beginning to rise in response to accelerated snowmelt due to hot
temperatures over the weekend. The river is expected to experience an on-going rising trend
throughout this week, and likely into next week, as hot temperatures continue to melt the
mountain snowpack in the Fraser River headwaters.

Flows in the lower Fraser River (Sto:lo)are anticipated to reach up to 10,000 m3/s at the Fraser
River at Hope (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MF005) and 6.0 m at the Mission gauge
(08MH024) by Friday or Saturday. Additional rises are possible over the weekend and into next
week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
Ministry of Forests

           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
