Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena River, Bulkley River
Issued: 3:45 PM June 1, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        Skeena River

        Bulkley River

A strong high‐pressure ridge has developed over British Columbia resulting in the warmest
temperatures of the season for most of the province. At the same time, an atmospheric river is
currently directed at the North Coast and expected to spill over into the Skeena River and
Bulkley River watersheds. The snowpack in the region was above normal this season and
considerable snow remains at some of the automated snow weather stations (4B16P Shedin
Creek has 70% of snow remaining for the season, while 4B17P Tsai Creek has 80% remaining).
The combined effect of continued snowmelt and contribution of rain will increase flows in the
Bulkley River, Skeena River, and tributaries. Due to the challenge of modeling rain on a melting
snowpack, there is a possibility that the CLEVER model is under‐forecasting the upcoming flows.
As of this afternoon, flows are increasing quicker than forecast at several stations including:
08EB004 Kispiox River near Hazelton, 08EF001 Skeena River at Usk, and 08EB005 Skeena River
above Babine River.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
