Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory - Kitimat-Kemano, Kingcome River
Issued: 2:00 PM October 30, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Kitimat River and Kemano River including tributaries

   •   Kingcome River

Weather Synopsis:

Overnight Thursday-Friday, an atmospheric river is expected to arrive on the North Coast of
British Columbia. The storm will slide south along the coast on Friday, bringing moderate to
heavy precipitation totals (possibly very heavy in some areas). Relatively warmer temperatures
accompanying the storm will cause an increase in freezing levels, which may generate
snowmelt and/or rain-on-snow. This warming effect will likely be more pronounced on the
Central and South coasts than it will be on the North Coast.

River Conditions:

Although the forecast precipitation totals for the Thursday-Friday storm are not unusually high
for B.C. coastal storms at this time of year, it is a continuation of a wet pattern for the coast.
The ongoing sequence of storms may have a significant cumulative effect on streamflows.

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly as the storm intensifies on Friday. The Kitimat-Kemano and
Kingcome watersheds may be particularly vulnerable to rapid flow increases due to recent
heavy precipitation and high flows; however, in the week since the last large coastal storm,
flows in gauged river systems for both watersheds have declined substantially, providing more
channel capacity for runoff from the upcoming storm.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
