Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED) – Englishman River, Cowichan River,
Koksilah River, Chemainus River
ENDED - Flood Watch – Southern Vancouver Island
ENDED- High Streamflow Advisory – West Vancouver Island, East Vancouver
Island, Central Vancouver Island
UPDATE: 6:00 AM November 16, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   Chemainus River

   •   Englishman River

   •   Cowichan River

   •   Koksilah River

The River Forecast Centre is ending Flood Watches and High Streamflow Advisories for:

   •   South Vancouver Island (other tributaries)

   •   Central Vancouver Island including tributaries around Port Alberni

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   East Vancouver Island

Following a significant atmospheric river event, rainfall rates eased on Monday afternoon. River
levels across Vancouver Island have reached their peak levels from this event, and rivers have
receded overnight. River flows remain high in some areas. With drier weather on Tuesday, on-
going recession of river levels is expected.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
