Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPGRADED: Flood Watch – Vancouver Island (South, East, Central, West)
MAINTAINED - High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast,
Vancouver Island (North)
ISSUED: 7:30 AM November 27, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Watch for:

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island

   •   Southern Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory:

   •   North Coast including areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley Bay, Kemano and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Central Coast including areas around Bella Coola, Wuikinuxv, Kingcome and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

A second in a series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the British Columbia Coast through the
weekend. Rainfall has begun on Vancouver Island, and rainfall warnings have been issued by
Environment and Climate Change Canada for West Vancouver Island and Eastern Vancouver
Island. Rainfall amounts in the 50-70 mm range are forecasted for Eastern Vancouver Island and
potentially exceeding 100 mm on West Vancouver Island and potentially exceeding 130 mm
around Port Renfrew. Additional snow at mid-elevations is available to melt as this system
passes and is expected to add additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers are expected to see rises through Saturday and overnight into Sunday. Current
precipitation forecasts and hydrologic modelling and assessments are indicating the potential
for flooding in areas around the south half of Vancouver Island (south of Campbell River and
Gold River) with most focused rainfall around Port Renfrew through to Cowichan Lake and the
Sooke River watershed. Spillover across the Vancouver Island ranges is possible, and with the
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
potential for flood flows onto the eastern slopes of Vancouver Island, including the Koksilah
River, Chemainus River, Cowichan River, Englishman River and surrounding areas. On North
Vancouver Island and the Central Coast, high streamflow is expected due to more moderate
rainfalls.

An additional atmospheric river is forecast to arrive to Coastal British Columbia on Tuesday and
may pose additional risk to flooding on the Central Coast and again on Vancouver Island.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
