Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, South Thompson
Issued: 11:30 AM July 9, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the BC Interior including:

   •   Upper Columbia tributaries including areas around Golden, Revelstoke and Three Valley
       Gap

   •   South Thompson tributaries including areas in the Monashee Mountains and areas east
       of Salmon Arm

Weather Synopsis:

A front is passing across British Columbia on Wednesday, bringing the potential for locally
heavy rainfall amounts. There remains uncertainty as to the exact locations and rainfall totals.
High-end scenarios indicate the potential for localized rainfall amounts reaching up to 80-
100mm with enhancement of rainfall anticipated from embedded thundershowers. Current
weather forecasts have the heaviest rainfall focused on the northern Monashee Mountains and
Thompson Plateau. Adjacent areas in the Upper Columbia region may also experience
moderate to heavy rainfall.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Wednesday and into Thursday in response to rainfall.
Smaller watersheds and localized areas where rainfall rates are the highest may experience
high streamflow. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for streamflow in the
2-year to 5-year return period range in areas. While higher flows are currently forecasted
around the Revelstoke to Golden area, high streamflow is possible in adjacent regions if rainfall
patterns vary from current weather modelling.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
