Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Lillooet River
Issued: 11:00AM June 25, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •     The Lillooet River at Pemberton

Current weather forecasts from Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) indicate the
potential for an extremely hot period of weather beginning this weekend and stretching into
next week. Temperatures are forecast to exceed 40°C in the Pemberton area over the weekend,
with temperatures exceeding 35°C forecast to persist far into next week. This significant heat
event will have a large melting impact on remaining and permanent snow throughout the
region.

Snow melted from this heat event is forecast to lead to rising river levels beginning early next
week (Monday) for upstream sites on the Lillooet River. Sites that are further downstream are
forecast to rise mid-next week as the pulse of snowmelt moves eventually into Harrison Lake.
Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows around the 5-year return period into
Tuesday, June 29th for the Lillooet River near Pemberton (WSC Gauge: 08MG005). Details of the
CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
