Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Central and East Vancouver Island, Sunshine Coast, Howe
Sound, Sea-to-Sky (MAINTAINED)
ENDED - Flood Watch – Englishman River, West Vancouver Island
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – North Shore Mountains, Vancouver Island (except Central
and East Vancouver Island)
Issued: 2:00 PM October 19, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the following High Streamflow Advisories:

   •   Vancouver Island (except West Vancouver Island)

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Howe Sound

   •   Sea-to-Sky including areas around Squamish to Whistler

The River Forecast Centre is ending the following High Streamflow Advisories and Flood
Watches for:

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Englishman River

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   North Vancouver Island

   •   South Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

The region experienced heavy rainfall over the past two days. Rainfall rates have now eased.

River Conditions:

Most rivers have now reached peak levels and are receding. In larger watersheds, and in areas
with lake influence on rivers, streamflow remains high. This includes areas on Central
Vancouver Island (including the Sproat and Somass Rivers), East Vancouver Island (including the
Nanaimo River) and in the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky corridor (including the
Squamish River, Cheakamus River and surrounding areas). High flows are expected to persist
through Thursday, with declining streamflow expected on Friday.
Ministry of Forests

The continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
