Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 2:00 PM June 15, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River from Quesnel downstream, including Big Bar, Boston Bar, and the Fraser
       Valley from Hope to the ocean

Rising snowmelt rates and wet weather across the BC Interior is leading to on-going high flows
in the Fraser River tributaries and mainstem.

Current flow on the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is 9700 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year
flow). Flows are forecast to remain elevated with modest changes over the next few days, with
flows forecast in the 9200 to 10,000 m3/s range expected through the rest of this week. The
Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) is currently at 5.5 m and forecasted to remain in the 5.5 m
to 5.9 m range through this week.

With significant mountain snowpack remaining in the Fraser River headwaters, flow may
remain elevated for an extended period over the next 1-2 weeks. During this period, the river
will remain vulnerable to extreme weather events, in particular heavy rainfall or extreme heat.
Short-term (10-day) weather forecasts are not indicating a risk of extreme heat, however
continued unsettled weather with precipitation in the BC Interior is anticipated to continue
being the dominant weather pattern.

Current flow forecasts for the Fraser River are available from the CLEVER model and WARNS
model, with water level forecasts available for locations along the lower Fraser River from Hope
to the ocean.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
