Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Stikine River, Tuya River
Issued: 12:15 PM June 1, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

       Stikine River

       Tuya River

A strong high‐pressure ridge has developed over British Columbia resulting in the warmest
temperatures of the season. At the same time, an atmospheric river is currently directed at the
North Coast and expected to spill over into the Stikine region. The snowpack in the Stikine was
well above normal this season and there is still snow at the automated snow weather stations
(4D10P Tumeka Creek has 55% of snow remaining for the season, while 4D11P Kinaskan Lake
has 20% remaining). The combined effect of continued snowmelt and contribution of rain will
increase flows in the Stikine, particularly for the larger rivers.

       STIKINE RIVER AT TELEGRAPH CREEK (08CE001) is flowing at a 1‐year return period of
        1400 m3/s and forecast to reach a 2‐year flow by the weekend.

       TUYA RIVER NEAR TELEGRAPH Creek (08CD001) is flowing at 400 m3/s, between a 2‐year
        and 5‐year return period and forecast to reach a 10‐year flow by the weekend.

Due to the challenge of modeling rain on a melting snowpack, there is a possibility that the
CLEVER model is under‐forecasting the upcoming flows.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
