Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Coldwater, Nicola (DOWNGRADED); Spius
(MAINTAINED)
ENDED ‐ High Streamflow Advisory – Tulameen, Similkameen
ISSUED: 6:45 AM December 3, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Coldwater River

      Lower Nicola River

      Spius Creek

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Tulameen River

      Similkameen River

Rivers are receding after recent peaks following a series of three atmospheric rivers.
Temperatures at Princeton and Merritt are forecast to be near or below freezing over the
upcoming 7‐days. Rivers and creeks are expected to continue receding through this period.

The risk of additional atmospheric rivers occurring along the British Columbia coast will remain
through the fall & winter.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
