Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – North Thompson, South Thompson, Upper Columbia, Upper
Fraser, Cariboo
Issued: 2:15 PM September 24, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Thompson region including tributary rivers around Blue River, Clearwater and
       surrounding areas

   •   South Thompson region including tributary rivers around Adams and Seymour Rivers and
       surrounding areas

   •   Upper Columbia including tributary rivers around Lake Revelstoke and surrounding areas
   •   Upper Fraser River including the McGregor River, Robson Valley and surrounding areas

   •   Cariboo region including headwaters of the Quesnel River and surrounding areas


Weather Synopsis:

Another in a series of atmospheric rivers has arrived on coastal British Columbia. The current
system is centered on the Central Coast with rainfall amounts potentially reaching 100-150 mm.
Based on the direction of flow for the atmospheric river, there is risk of moderate to heavy rain
spilling over into the Interior. Areas at risk with heaver rainfall (40-50 mm, possibly more) include
the headwaters of the North and South Thompson, Upper Fraser, Upper Columbia, and Cariboo
regions.


River Conditions:

No major flooding is expected at this time, but rivers may experience a rapid increase in flows,
particularly in smaller watersheds and streams. In some areas, flows are already higher due to
recent precipitation, which may amplify the effects of the upcoming storm. Heavy rainfall may
exacerbate runoff from areas that experienced severe wildfires this past summer.



Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
