Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE – High Streamflow – Lillooet River (DOWNGRADED)
ISSUED: 12:15 PM July 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading the Flood Watch to a High Streamflow Advisory for
the Lillooet River, including:

   •   Pemberton

   •   Lillooet Lake

   •   Lillooet River and tributaries

   •   Harrison Lake

Peak daily temperatures at Pemberton have decreased from a high of 43.2°C observed on June
28th down to 29.6°C yesterday (July 1). Snow and glacial melt rates have been easing with the
drop in temperatures, with local automated snow weather stations in the 1400-1700m
elevation range becoming snow-free over the past few days. Based on satellite-derived snow
cover analysis, it is estimated that approximately 20% of the Lillooet River watershed remains
snow covered.

Peak daily river levels and Lillooet Lake levels have been dropping from levels observed over
the June 27th to July 1st period. Current conditions include:

   •   LILLOOET RIVER NEAR PEMBERTON (08MG005) reached the highest flows of 736 m3/s (5-year
       flow) at 4:30am PST on Monday. Currently, the river has dropped to a level of approximately
       535 m3/s

   •   HARRISON RIVER BELOW MORRIS CREEK (08MG022) is currently at a level of 11.55 m (between
       a 5-year and 10-year return period level) and is expected to be at peak levels (including Harrison
       Lake)

With eased temperatures and snowmelt rates, river and lake levels are expected to see
improving conditions into the weekend. Flows and lake levels are expected to remain high for
the next few days and will remain vulnerable to rainfall events over this period.

CLEVER Model forecasts are available at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
