Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 3:00 PM June 19, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

         Fraser River from Quesnel downstream, including Big Bar, Boston Bar, and the Fraser
          Valley from Hope to the ocean

Continued snowmelt and wet weather across the BC Interior is leading to on‐going high flows in
the Fraser River tributaries and mainstem.

Current flow on the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is 9400 m3/s (between a 2‐year and 5‐year
flow). Flows are forecast to rise slightly over the next few days nearing 10,000 m3/s. Flows have
remained in the 9,000 to 10,000 m3/s range since June 9th. The Fraser River at Mission
(08MH024) is currently at 5.35 m and likely to measure modest rises over the next few days.

For the upcoming week, there is a significant widespread precipitation event forecast for the
headwaters of the Fraser River in the North & South Thompson Rivers and Cariboo Mountains
starting Tuesday evening and extending into Wednesday. Expect the possibility of significant
rises from these watersheds as rivers are currently near capacity. At the moment, the Upper
Fraser (Robson Valley, McGregor) is not forecast to receive the direct impact from the storm
system, so flows in the Upper Fraser are comparatively lower at below 2‐year return period
levels.

With significant mountain snowpack remaining in the Fraser River headwaters, flow may
remain elevated for an extended period over the next 1‐2 weeks. During this period, the river
will remain vulnerable to extreme weather events, in particular heavy rainfall or extreme heat.
Short‐term (5‐day) weather forecasts are indicating continued unsettled weather with
precipitation in the BC Interior. Mid‐range (5‐10 day) weather forecasts are hinting at a ridge of
high pressure bringing heat to the province next weekend (June 25‐26).

Current flow forecasts for the Fraser River are available from the CLEVER model and WARNS
model, with water level forecasts available for locations along the lower Fraser River from Hope
to the ocean.
Ministry of Forests

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
