Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Liard
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Nass, Stikine
Issued: 9:30 AM May 22, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Liard River

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Nass River

   •       Stikine River and tributaries around Telegraph Creek, Dease Lake and Tahltan Territory

   •       Northwest B.C. including tributaries in the northern Cassiar Mountains

Weather Synopsis:

Follow a week of seasonally hot weather, temperatures have now eased through the region to
seasonal to below seasonal conditions. A low-pressure system is forecast to bring rainfall into
north-east British Columbia, and may contribute additional runoff into the Liard River basin.

River Conditions:

Cooling temperatures have led to reduced rates of snowmelt runoff. River levels have eased, an
no additional significant rises in rivers (except the Liard River) are expected at this time.

On the Liard River, rivers continue to rise gradually due to accelerated snowmelt runoff over
the past week. Potential rainfall in the watershed today and tomorrow may lead to additional
rises in river levels into the middle of this week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning
Ministry of Forests

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
