Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior, South-East BC
Issued: 12:45 PM December 9, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Interior

   •   Boundary

   •   West Kootenay

   •   East Kootenay

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is impacting British Columbia through this week. The heaviest
rainfall is focused on coastal areas, however spillover of rainfall into the interior ranges of the
South Interior and south-east BC is possible. Temperatures are expected to rise through
Wednesday and while initial precipitation is expected to fall as snow, a transition to rain and
melting snow is possible through Wednesday.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise on Wednesday in response to rainfall and snowmelt. Current
hydrologic modelling is forecasting higher flows around the Okanagan, Boundary and Kootenay
region. Significant flood hazard is not expected, however localized high flows, particularly in
lower elevation creeks and smaller watersheds is possible.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
