Ministry of Forests


High Streamflow Advisory – Lillooet River
Issued: 9:00AM July 26, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the Lillooet River,
including:

   •      Pemberton

   •      Lillooet Lake

   •      Lillooet River and tributaries

A province wide heat wave is in effect. Pemberton reached 37.1°C on Monday and overnight
temperatures remained at 14.4°C. The Lillooet River watershed is comprised of unmonitored
very high elevation snow and glacial contributions which can delay peak flows into the summer
months. The Lillooet River near Pemberton (08MG005) hydrometric station measured rises
overnight to 502 m3/s as of 6:00am. The previous high flow for the Lillooet River this freshet
season occurred on July 13 at 510 m3/s. Hot weather remains in the forecast for the upcoming
week [Current Pemberton ECCC Weather Forecast Max/Min; Tuesday: 34°C/17°C, Wednesday:
34°C/17°C, Thursday: 33°C/17°C, Friday: 31°C/17°C, Saturday: 29°C/17°C]. The Lillooet River is
expected to continue rising this week and likely reach above a 2-year return period flow at
Pemberton (564 m3/s).

Flows are not expected to reach the same levels as last year during the Heat Dome. On June 28,
2021, the Lillooet River near Pemberton peaked at 758 m3/s (between 5-year and 10-year
return period flow). Last year temperatures were much hotter than currently forecast.
Pemberton reached above 40°C for four consecutive days and the highest daily minimum was
17.7°C.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
