Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

DOWNGRADE – High Streamflow Advisory - Sproat and Somass Rivers
ENDED – High Streamflow Advisory - Vancouver Island, South Coast, Lillooet River, Squamish
River
Issued: 2:00 PM February 2, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Sproat and Somass Rivers (DOWNGRADED)

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lillooet River and tributaries (ENDED)

   •   Squamish River including tributaries including Cheakamus River (ENDED)

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky and North Shore
       Mountains (ENDED)

   •   Vancouver Island (ENDED)

Weather Synopsis:

Rainfall has eased through the region, with drier weather and cooling temperatures expected
through the weekend and into next week.

River Conditions:

River flows throughout Vancouver Island and the South Coast continue to recede from recent
rain-on-snow related peeks earlier in the week. Upcoming cool and dry weather conditions will
maintain the continued recession of river flows.

The Sproat River and Somass River attenuate flow from Sproat Lake. The river levels usually
peek several days later compared to other river systems. The Sproat River and Somass River are
expected to maintain high flows with low receding rates on Friday and into the weekend.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
