Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island, South Coast
Issued: 12:00 PM February 21, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Western Vancouver Island including rivers around Tofino, Ucluelet, Port Renfrew and
       surrounding areas

   •   Southern Vancouver Island including rivers around Duncan, Chemainus and surrounding
       areas

   •   South Coast including the North Shore Mountains, Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast and
       surrounding areas

   • Lower Fraser including tributaries around Metro Vancouver, Fraser Valley and
       tributaries into the Fraser Canyon

Weather Synopsis:

A transition in weather is underway across south-west British Columbia. A period of wet and
warm weather is forecast through the weekend and next week. Temperatures are expected to
rise to above 10-12°C at low elevations, and freezing levels are expected to rise to 2000 m or
higher. Moderate to heavy rainfall is forecasted through the region over the Friday, Saturday
and Sunday period, with additional rain expected next week.

River Conditions:

Runoff from rainfall and additional snowmelt is expected to lead to periods of high streamflow
through the weekend and Tuesday, particularly from mountainous watersheds in the region.
Significant flooding is not anticipated, however localized issues are possible.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety, and the public is urged to be cautious.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
