Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Mission Creek (DOWNGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior and Southeast BC (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 12:00 PM July 5, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is downgraded to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Mission Creek

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior
and Southeast BC including:

   •   Similkameen River and tributaries

   •   Okanagan and tributaries through the region

   •   Boundary including tributaries in the Kettle and Granby Rivers

   •   West Kootenay including the Slocan River, Duhamel Creek and tributaries around the region

   •   East Kootenay including the Kootenay River and tributaries through the region

A period of unsettled weather brought rainshowers, including locally intense thundershowers,
across southern British Columbia. Between 10 to 40 mm of rain has fallen throughout the
region since July 3rd; however, given the convective nature of this precipitation, it is likely that
specific regions and watersheds saw more rain and high rainfall rates within the last 24 hours.
Local urban flooding in Penticton illustrates this potential for significant rainfall amounts and
rates over the past 24-48 hours within specific contexts.

Responses in rivers is expected to be highly variable across southern BC in response to
upcoming weather, with rising rivers expected in areas which receive the heaviest rain.
Hydrologic modeling is indicating the potential for moderate flows, in the 2-year to 5-year
range, in areas with rain within their forecast. Given uncertainty in the exact locations and
intensity of rainfall, it is possible that small and medium sized watersheds throughout the
region may experience higher flows Tuesday and Wednesday.

On Mission Creek near East Kelowna (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NM116), flows peaked
on July 4th at 55 m3/s and receded, with a minor peak last night of 41.2 m3/s, with current
flows at 37 m3/s (below a 2-year flow). Current forecasts suggest continued recession within
Ministry of Forests

this system. Indeed, weather forecasts for the south interior indicates less rain totals to the end
of the week than we experienced over the past 72 hours, although unsettled weather is
forecast to continue into Friday. Convective rain is difficult to forecast in advance with accuracy
and precision, and so this High Streamflow remains in place for the South Interior in recognition
that unsettled weather is forecast into the end of this week, where smaller watersheds are
more vulnerable to the impact of regionally-intense rainstorms.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
