Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Kingcome, South Coast, Lillooet River, Lower Mainland,
Vancouver Island
ENDED: High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast
Issued: 1:30PM October 25, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Kingcome River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and surrounding areas

   •   Lillooet River near Pemberton and tributaries

   •   Lower Mainland including the North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver and tributaries
       around the Fraser Valley

   •   Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast

   •   Central Coast (excluding Kingcome River)

Weather Synopsis:

Heavy rain has now eased through the region. Additional showers are possible Saturday to
Sunday.

River Conditions:

Rivers have reached peak levels from this event and are now receding. Additional small rises in
levels are possible through Sunday, however significant streamflow increases are not expected
and flood hazard is limited.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
