Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior and Southeast BC
ISSUED: 9:30 AM July 3, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Interior and
Southeast BC including:

   •   Similkameen River and tributaries

   •   Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries through the region

   •   Boundary including tributaries in the Kettle and Granby Rivers

   •   West Kootenay including the Slocan River, Duhamel Creek and tributaries around the region

   •   East Kootenay including the Kootenay River and tributaries through the region

A period of unsettled weather is expected across southern British Columbia. On Sunday,
showers with potential thundershowers are forecasted across the region. On Monday, an upper
low is expected to track across south-west BC, bringing wrap around precipitation with the
potential for heavier rainfall and thundershowers to areas in the South Interior and Kootenays.

Responses in rivers is expected to be highly variable across southern BC in response to
upcoming weather, with rising rivers expected in areas which receive the heaviest rain.
Hydrologic modeling is indicating the potential for moderate flows, in the 2-year to 5-year
range, in areas. Given the uncertainty in the exact locations and intensity of rainfall, it is
possible that small and medium sized watersheds throughout the region may experience high
flows on Monday and Tuesday.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
