Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, East Kootenay, West Kootenay
Issued: 12:45PM June 15, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        Upper Columbia

        East Kootenay

        West Kootenay

The Columbia / Kootenay region experienced very warm temperatures over the past couple
days resulting in rapid melt of the remaining high elevation snowpack. Automated snow
weather stations recorded 30‐60mm of snow water equivalent melt yesterday. A storm system,
immediately following the warmth has added additional precipitation to watersheds. Rivers are
rising quickly throughout the Upper Columbia, East Kootenay and West Kootenay.

Rivers in the region that are currently flowing above 2‐year flows include: Blaeberry River above
Willowbank Creek (08NB012), Beaver River near the Mouth (08NB019), Illecillewaet River at
Greeley (08ND013), and Duncan River below B.B. Creek (08NH119). Other rivers forecast to rise
considerably include the Kicking Horse River, Columbia River at Donald, Spillamacheen River,
Kootenay River at Fort Steele, Kaslo River and Lemon Creek. Smaller watersheds at lower
elevations are primarily susceptible if heavy precipitation occurs.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
