Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Elk River (DOWNGRADED), West Kootenay
(DOWNGRADED), East Kootenay (DOWNGRADED), Upper Columbia (ENDED)
ISSUED: 3:00PM June 14, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Elk River

    •    West Kootenay

    •    East Kootenay

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Watch for:

    •    Upper Columbia including the Kicking Horse River, Illecillewaet River and tributaries
         around Invermere, Radium, Golden and Revelstoke

Precipitation over the past day has fallen across the region, with total amounts in the 20-30mm
range observed in most areas, with pockets of 30-60mm observed in areas around Sparwood
and Elko. Temperatures dropped significantly, with reduced snowmelt rates and some
precipitation falling as snow at mid-to-high elevations.

Rivers are experiencing lower levels than forecasted yesterday. In some areas, flows remain
high but are not anticipated to reach flood stage as the runoff from this recent storm continues
to pass over the coming day. Additional rainfall is in the longer-range forecast, and advisories
may need to be upgraded at a later time.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
