Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Lower Fraser Region (Lillooet River and
surrounding tributaries)
Issued: 9:00 AM May 16, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Lower Fraser River tributaries, including the Lillooet River, Birkenhead River, tributaries
           flowing into the Fraser Canyon, and surrounding areas

   •       South Coast including the Squamish River and tributaries around Squamish and Whistler

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the south B.C. coast is experiencing unseasonably hot weather.
Temperatures are forecast to be hot throughout the week, with daytime highs 10 to 15 degrees
Celsius above seasonal values and overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees normal. Hot
temperatures are forecasted to last through the week with temperatures in the upper 20’s to
30°C.

River Conditions:

Streamflow in the mountainous regions of south-west British Columbia have been rising due to
accelerated snowmelt since the weekend. Rising river levels are anticipated into the coming
weekend (May 20-21), with flows forecast to potentially reach the 2-year to 5-year return
period level over this week. Specific rivers of concern include the Squamish River, Lillooet River,
Birkenhead River, Harrison River and surround areas.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning
Ministry of Forests

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
