Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island, Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound
Issued: 4:00 PM October 17, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Vancouver Island

    •    Sunshine Coast

    •    Howe Sound

Weather Synopsis:

A Pacific weather system is moving on-shore this evening, bringing significant sub-tropical
moisture to coastal British Columbia. The system is expected to stall overnight and through
Wednesday, bringing heavy rainfall to areas. Environment and Climate Change Canada have
issued rainfall warnings for the region, with rainfall rates in the 180-200 mm range being
identified for West Vancouver Island, 40-60 mm for the Sunshine Coast, 80-120 mm for Inland
Vancouver Island, 60-80 mm for Eastern Vancouver Island and 50-70 mm for Howe Sound.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise in response to rainfall, with high flows expected across Vancouver
Island, Sunshine Coast and Howe Sound. Rivers are expected to rise overnight Tuesday and
through Wednesday and recede as rainfall eases into Thursday. Localized minor flooding and
road washouts are possible.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
