Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia (NEW), Kootenay (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 12:15PM June 21, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   (NEW) Upper Columbia including the Kicking Horse River, Illecillewaet River and
       tributaries around Invermere, Radium, Golden and Revelstoke

   •   West Kootenay

   •   East Kootenay

Flows have remained elevated over the past week due to on-going snowmelt and runoff from
precipitation.

A new low-pressure system is expected to pass over British Columbia into Wednesday and
Thursday, bringing another period of wet weather to parts of the region. At present, the
heaviest rainfall is forecast in areas of the Upper Columbia including tributaries into Kinbasket
Lake, with the potential for moderate to heavy rainfall in headwater areas around Revelstoke
and Golden. These areas may experience a period of more rapid river rises above current levels
on Wednesday and Thursday.

Further south into the Kootenays, forecasted rainfall is more limited. Rivers may remain high
over this period.

In the longer range, warming temperatures into the weekend and next week are expected to
lead to accelerated snowmelt rates in mountain areas. This may bring a prolonged period of
higher flows this weekend and next week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
