Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Liard River
Issued: 11:50AM June 17, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the Liard River, including:

    •    Liard River and tributaries

Continuous high temperatures up to 22 °C early this week and heavy rainfall with a total
amount of about 100 mm in the past 2 days have boosted steadily the water levels in the Liard
River and tributaries. The LIARD RIVER AT UPPER CROSSING (a Yukon Territory river) (10AA001)
is currently running at a flow between the 2- and 5-year return periods and expected to rise
further this week based on the current hydrologic modeling. The LIARD RIVER AT LOWER
CROSSING (10BE001) is currently also running at a flow between the 2- and 5-year return
periods and expected to peak at 6,000 m3/s, which is a flow slightly below the 5-year return
period, tonight or tomorrow. Small ungauged stream systems could be rising more significantly
and peak at higher levels. Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
