Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast, South Coast, Vancouver Island
Issued: 12:30 PM December 8, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River, Wannock River and surrounding basins

   •   South Coast including Howe Sounds, North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver, and
       Lower Mainland

   •   Lower Fraser tributaries including the Chilliwack River and others around the Fraser
       Valley

   •   Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river aimed at the US Pacific Northwest will broadly impact the south and
central coasts of British Columbia today through this week, with the heaviest rain forecast for
today and Wednesday. While the highest precipitation amounts for this storm are expected for
Washington and Oregon, there is the possibility heavier amounts could shift northward into
British Columbia. Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued rainfall warnings
through the region, identifying total precipitation amounts today 50-75 mm in the Lower
Mainland area and up to 120 mm for parts of Central Coast. Additional runoff from rain-on-
snow and snowmelt is possible.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly today and remain high through the week. Current modelling
is indicating the potential for flows that may reach or exceed the 2-year return period in some
areas. Some scenarios are showing even higher flows for some rivers, particularly for basins in
the Lower Fraser Valley, including the Chilliwack River and surrounding areas, if the
atmospheric river shifts northward. Localized minor flood issues are possible at these locations,
particularly in smaller creek systems.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
