Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior
ISSUED: 10:45 AM June 2, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Nicola River and tributaries including the Coldwater River, Spius Creek and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Similkameen River including the Tulameen River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Okanagan including tributaries around Osoyoos, Penticton, Kelowna, Vernon and
       surrounding areas

   •   Salmon River near Salmon Arm

   •   Boundary Region including the Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries

Steady warming this week is leading to increasing snowmelt rates and river runoff. Daily
maximum temperatures have been reaching the low to mid-20°C range and are expected to
reach similar levels today. While low and mid elevation snowpack is now depleted, higher
elevation areas (above 1600m) have experienced a delayed melt this year, and significant
snowpacks remain.

A low-pressure system is expected to impact the BC Interior on Friday, bringing unsettled
weather and repeated periods of moderate to heavy rainfall across the region over the
weekend and into next week.

Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for a period of high flows throughout
the region into the weekend. These forecasts include high-end estimates that there is a risk that
flood conditions emerge over the weekend. There is still uncertainty in this weekend’s forecast,
in particular the locations and amounts of rainfall. Current forecasting is indicating areas
around the Okanagan and Boundary are expected to see the highest rainfall amounts and river
responses.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
