Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
Issued: 11:30 AM March 13, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Shore Mountains and Metro Vancouver tributaries

   •   Howe Sound and the Sea-to-Sky Corridor including Squamish and Pemberton

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Lower Fraser tributaries and the Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

A strong atmospheric river is forecast to impact coastal British Columbia beginning mid-day on
Sunday, and potentially continuing for several days. Current weather models indicate the initial
pulse of heavy precipitation will impact the South Coast late Sunday into Monday and continue
through much of the week.

Environment and Climate Change Canada forecast totals for the event (Sun Mar 15 to Wed Mar
18) include: Howe Sound/Sea to Sky (150–200 mm), Metro Vancouver (60–120 mm), North Shore
Mountains (120–180 mm), Fraser Valley (60–120 mm) and Whistler/Pemberton (30–60 mm).

Freezing levels are forecast to rise quickly, reaching up to 3000 m above sea level by Monday.
Additional runoff from snowmelt is expected in areas where snow remains on the ground.

Uncertainty remains regarding the exact duration and intensity of the atmospheric river. Forecast
models suggest the potential for multiple pulses of rainfall, which could extend the period of
elevated runoff and river response through the middle of next week or longer.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall and rain-on-snow runoff throughout the
region. Rivers are expected to begin rising Monday, with peak levels possible early to mid-next
week depending on the timing and intensity of the heaviest rainfall.

Smaller rivers and streams may respond quickly to intense rainfall and could experience rapid
rises during periods of heavy precipitation.

High-end scenarios indicate the potential for conditions to escalate above a high streamflow
advisory, with key hazards including the potential for pooling water, overbank flow, bank
erosion, washouts, and landslides.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for challenging driving
conditions and potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never drive
through flood waters or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
