Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South East
ISSUED: 15:00 PM November 27, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for streams in southeast BC
including:

    •   Elk River and tributaries

    •   Duncan River and tributaries

    •   St Mary River and tributaries

A second in a series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the British Columbia Coast through the
weekend. Rainfall is expected to be heavy on the South Coast, with the potential for spillover of
moist air across the Cascade and Coast Mountains and into Interior watersheds. Warming is
also expected to contribute to snowmelt at mid-elevations and rain-on-snow runoff. A second
weather system is forecast to hit the coast and travel east into the interior beginning on
Tuesday, Nov 30th and into Wednesday, Dec 1st. This second system has the potential for more
precipitation within the southeast interior than the first; more certainty is possible as we draw
closer to the event. Both events are relatively warm storms; however, precipitation at high
elevation will fall as snow. Thus, the most impacted streams will be watersheds at low to mid
elevations.

River levels are expected to rise Sunday into Monday, with the potential for second peaks into
later next week (Wed-Thursday) as the second system drops precipitation on the southern
interior.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
