Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast and North Coast
Issued: 2:45PM August 26, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Central Coast

    •    North Coast

A moderate intensity atmospheric river is expected to make landfall over the Central and North
Coast of British Columbia. The storm track may persist across the region, providing several days
of moderate to heavy rainfall. There is still some uncertainty over the location of where the
heaviest rain will fall, with areas from Wuikinuxv north through Bella Coola, Kitimat, Prince
Rupert to Stewart. Rainfall is expected to increase on Sunday, and persist through Monday and
into Tuesday in areas, depending on the storm progression. Forecasting from weather
modelling is indicating a range of potential rainfall amounts, depending on the weather model
(for example the Canadian GEM models and the WRF-GFS) with some modeling producing 2-3
day rainfall totals in the 100-200+ mm range in areas.

Precipitation amounts of this magnitude are capable of producing very high flows in rivers
through the region. Persistent dry weather over the past several weeks may help buffer some
of the runoff as dry soils will absorb some of the rainfall. Currently modelling is indicating the
potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year range in areas over the Sunday to Tuesday period.

Details of forecast from the COFFEE Model can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
