Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 3:00 PM June 27, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River from Quesnel downstream, including Big Bar, Boston Bar, and the Fraser
       Valley from Hope to the ocean

Continued snowmelt and wet weather across the BC Interior is leading to on-going high flows in
the Fraser River tributaries and mainstem.

Current flow on the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is 10,200 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-
year flow). Flows are forecast to see a modest drop early this week and rise later in the week,
with flows through Friday, July 1st expected in the 9,500-10,500 m3/s range. The Fraser River at
Mission (08MH024) is currently at 5.7 m, with daily peak levels in the 5.8 to 6.1 m range
expected through Friday, July 1st.

Rainfall this week in headwater areas, particularly in the Upper Fraser, Nechako and Middle
Fraser reaches, may lead to a rising trend in flows this coming weekend.

Snowmelt at automated snow weather stations has been rapid, with two-thirds of the annual
snow accumulation now melted. Flows on the Fraser River are anticipated to remain well above
normal for this time of year over the next several weeks. Over the next week or so in particular,
risks for rising flows will mostly be driven by rainfall on top of already high river levels from
snowmelt runoff.

Current flow forecasts for the Fraser River are available from the CLEVER model and WARNS
model, with water level forecasts available for locations along the lower Fraser River from Hope
to the ocean.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
