Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – South East
ISSUED: 10:30AM November 28, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for streams in
southeast BC including:

   •   (NEW) Upper Columbia including Revelstoke and Golden and surrounding areas including
       lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   (NEW) West Kootenay including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   Elk River and tributaries

   •   Duncan River and tributaries

   •   St Mary River and tributaries

A second in a series of atmospheric rivers is impacting the British Columbia Coast. Rainfall is
expected to reach into the Interior ranges of the Province, bringing heavy local rainfall amounts
to lower elevation and valley bottom locations throughout the Columbia, West Kootenay and
East Kootenay. Warming is also expected to contribute to snowmelt at mid-elevations and rain-
on-snow runoff. Another weather system is forecast to impact British Columbia early next
week, with additional rainfall is expected for the Interior on Tuesday and Wednesday.

River levels are expected to rise Sunday into Monday, with the potential for second peaks into
later next week as the second system drops precipitation on the BC Interior. Warming
temperatures during these events is anticipated to lead to significant snowmelt at lower and
valley bottom elevations, leading to rain-on-snow runoff in smaller tributaries.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
