Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Chilcotin
Issued: 11:15AM June 26, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Chilcotin, including Taseko River, Chilko River, Chilcotin River, Big Creek, Homathko
       River and surrounding tributaries draining from the Chilcotin/South Coast Mountains

Hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered significant amount of snowmelt at
the higher elevations of the Chilcotin and South Coast Mountains. Automated snow weather
stations (1300-1600m) are snow-free, however satellite analysis is indicating snow coverage in
upper elevations throughout the region. Nearby automated snow weather stations in the South
Coast have been melting at a rate of 40-50 mm per day. Environment and Climate Change
Canada (ECCC) forecasts rising temperatures up to the 40°C range in the Hanceville and Alexis
Creek region over the coming days. These high temperatures will increase substantially the
snowmelt and glacier melt which will cause river levels to continue to rise in the coming days.

Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the Chilcotin River near Hanceville (Water Survey of
Canada gauge 08MB012) is currently flowing at approximately 300 m3/s (2-year flow) and
expected to rise and may reach up to 20-year return period flows by July 1. The Taseko River
near the outlet of Taseko Lake (08GE002) is currently flowing at approximately 165 m3/s (2-year
return period flow) and expected to rise and may reach up to 20-year return period flows by
July 1. The Chilko River at the outlet of Chilko Lake (08MA002) is currently flowing at
approximately 120 m3/s (approaching a 2-year return period flow) and expected to rise and
may reach up to 20-year return period flows by July 1. Uncertainty in weather and hydrologic
modelling indicates that higher, or lower, than forecasted flows are possible. Details of the
CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
