Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 2:30 PM July 8, 2022


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Fraser River from Quesnel downstream, including Big Bar, Boston Bar, and the Fraser
       Valley from Hope to the ocean

The Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) reached above a 2‐year return period flow (8,650 m3/s) on
June 8th and has remained above that level over the past month. Flows reached the highest
value of the season on June 26th at approximately 10,400 m3/s and rose again for a secondary
peak of approximately 10,300 m3/s on July 3rd. The secondary peak was caused by the warmest
temperatures of the year occurring on the weekend of June 25‐26 melting the Interior
snowpack, moderate rainfall in the Upper Fraser watershed on June 28‐29, and a moderate
South Coast rain event on July 3rd. The secondary peak for the Fraser River at Hope combined
with additional contributions from local rivers in the Fraser Valley resulted in the highest water
levels of the freshet season for the Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) gauge of approximately
5.87 m near mid‐day on July 4th.

Since the recent peaks, water levels have been receding slowly. The Fraser River at Hope is
currently flowing at approximately 9,500 m3/s and the Fraser River at Mission has a water level
of 5.52 m. Current weather forecast inputs into the CLEVER model indicate continued slow
recession over the upcoming 10‐days. The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High
Streamflow Advisory for the Fraser River from Quesnel downstream to the ocean as the river
remains above a 2‐year return period flow. Also, there are significantly high flows at many of
the upstream tributaries including the Chilcotin River, Nechako River, Quesnel River, North
Thompson River, South Thompson River, and the Upper Fraser. It is unlikely for the Lower
Fraser River to reach higher levels this season, but it is possible if a heavy and widespread rain
event occurs in the next couple weeks in the headwater basins.

Current flow forecasts for the Fraser River are available from the CLEVER model and WARNS
model, with water level forecasts available for locations along the lower Fraser River from Hope
to the ocean.
Ministry of Forests

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
