Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River (DOWNGRADED)
ENDED – Cariboo Mountains – other tributaries
ISSUED: 9:45 AM May 29, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Quesnel River

The River Forecast Centre is ending Flood Watch/High Streamflow advisories for:

   •       Other tributaries in the Middle Fraser and Cariboo Mountains including tributaries east
           of ?Esdilagh and Quesnel (including Little Swift River, Horsefly River), Secwepemc
           Territory and surrounding areas



River Conditions:

In the Cariboo Mountains, the lake-fed Quesnel River has reached peak levels and remains high.
Levels are expected to remain high over the coming days before receding, and no significant
additional river rises are expected at this time.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
