Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser River
Issued: 11:30AM June 26, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing to a High Streamflow Advisory for the Upper Fraser River
including:

   •   Upper Fraser River including the Robson Valley and areas from Sinclair Mills upstream
       to Torpy, Dome Creek, McBride and surrounding tributaries

Hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered significant amount of snowmelt at
the higher elevations of the Upper Fraser River. Automated snow weather stations located in
this basin are currently recording a snow water equivalent (SWE) from 188 mm to 441 mm.
Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) forecasts rising temperatures up to 34°C in the
Upper Fraser region over the coming days. These high temperatures will increase substantially
the snowmelt which will cause river levels to continue to rise in the coming days.

The Upper Fraser River and tributaries are currently running at flows between the 2- and 5-year
return periods. Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the FRASER RIVER AT RED PASS
(08KA007) is expected to rise significantly this weekend into next week and pass the 10-year
return period next Monday. The FRASER RIVER AT MCBRIDE (08KA005) is expected to reach the
5-year return period level tomorrow. The large tributaries, such as the DORE RIVER NEAR
MCBRIDE (08KA001), MCKALE RIVER NEAR 940M CONTOUR (08KA009), and MORKILL RIVER
BELOW HELLROARING CREEK (08KA013), are also expected to rise significantly next week.
Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
