Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Stikine and Northwest BC
Issued: 11:00 AM June 2, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Stikine River and tributaries including areas around Telegraph Creek, Dease Lake,
           Tahltan Territory, and tributaries around the Cassiar Mountains

Weather Synopsis:

A low-pressure system is forecast to impact B.C. over the weekend, with the potential for heavy
rainfall in the north-west corner of the province on Sunday and Monday.

River Conditions:

Rivers through the region are expected to rise on Sunday and Monday in response to rainfall.
Current modelling is indicating the potential for rapid river responses in areas that receive
heavy rainfall to reach or exceed 2-year to 5-year flows.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
