Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast, Northern Vancouver
Island
Issued: 3:50 PM November 22, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including areas around Kitimat, Kemano and further south

   •   Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River,
       Owikeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

A strong atmospheric river is approaching and expected to arrive on the Central Coast
tomorrow (Wednesday, Nov 23) with precipitation forecast to continue through Thursday (Nov
24). Freezing elevations will likely rise to approximately 1,200 to 1,500 m during the heaviest
precipitation on Thursday. Currently, there is good agreement between weather models for the
heaviest precipitation to fall between Kitimat and Bella Bella. Total precipitation from the storm
event is expected to range from 80 to 120 mm within this region, with possibly higher rates in
mountainous areas. Areas on northern Vancouver Island, like Port Hardy and Zeballos, could
reach 80 to 100 mm for the storm event. Areas further north of Kitimat, like Prince Rupert and
Terrace are only expecting to be grazed by the atmospheric river with current weather models
indicating 30 to 40 mm total precipitation.

River levels are expected to rise Thursday and likely peak later in the evening or the following
day. There is uncertainty with the exact level of the freezing elevation. If temperatures warm a
little more than currently forecast, the river response could be quicker due to rain-on-snow
conditions. Alternatively, if the freezing level remains lower, the upcoming event could result in
significant mountain snow accumulation.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
