Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson
ISSUED: 11:00AM June 12, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Thompson River and tributaries, including the Seymour River, Eagle River,
         Adams River, Shuswap River and surrounding tributaries

Snowmelt at most elevations through the upper reaches of the South Thompson have raised
stream levels through the region. Steamflow and water levels are at or approaching 2-year
flows in many of the tributaries, including the Adams River near Squilax (Water Survey of
Canada gauge 08LD001), Seymour River near Seymour Arm (08LE027), Eagle River near
Malakwa (08LE024), Shuswap River near Enderby (08LC002), and Shuswap Lake and the South
Thompson at Chase (08LE031).

Moderate rainfall is forecast through the region on Monday, with local amounts in the 10-25
mm, and potentially more over higher terrain, currently forecasted. River levels are expected to
see increased rates of rise on Monday and Tuesday in response to on-going snowmelt and
additional runoff from rainfall. Currently hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for
flows in the 2-year to 5-year range for most rivers over the early part of next week (Monday to
Wednesday). On-going rises in rivers is also possible later in the week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
