Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Similkameen River
Issued: 1:00PM June 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        Similkameen River, Tulameen River and including tributaries

A strong high‐pressure ridge has developed over British Columbia resulting in the hottest
temperatures of the season. The automated snow weather station 2G03P Blackwall Peak
(elevation 1934 m) reached a maximum temperature of 21.4°C yesterday and only dropped to
12.7°C overnight. The station is rapidly melting at about 40mm snow water equivalent per day
and still has approximately 50% of the snowpack remaining. The Similkameen River, Tulameen
River and tributaries are expected to increase over the next few days, likely reaching 2‐year
return period flows. Flows are not expected to reach major flooding levels due to the snowmelt
alone, but the rivers in the region will be vulnerable if a heavy rainfall occurred while at their
highest level of the season.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
