Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, West Kootenay, East Kootenay, North and
Thompson tributaries, Okanagan, Boundary
Issued: 10:45 AM May 13, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for areas of the Interior
including:

   •   Upper Columbia including tributaries around Revelstoke, Golden and surrounding areas

   •   West Kootenay including tributaries around Trout Lake, Lardeau River, Kaslo, Nakusp,
       Edgewood, Fauquier, and surrounding areas

   •   East Kootenay including tributaries around Radium, Invermere and surrounding areas

   •   Tributaries to the North and South Thompson Rivers, including areas around Clearwater,
       Blue River, Malakwa, Sicamous and surrounding areas

   •   North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon and surrounding areas

   •   Boundary including headwater tributaries on the Granby River and surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

The past week has featured seasonally warm temperatures due to the predominance of high
pressure across British Columbia. A transition in weather is underway, with low pressure
troughing off the coast and over BC forecast to build and remain the key weather maker
through Saturday. This low pressure is expected to bring dropping temperatures and moderate
to heavy rainfall through the interior. Areas with the heaviest forecast rainfall include the
mountainous regions around Revelstoke, Golden, Shuswap Lake, Monashee Mountains,
Valhallas, Purcells, and extending north to Clearwater and Blue River, with total precipitation
amounts from today through the end of Saturday of 30 to 70+ mm. While the general wet
pattern is expected across the region, localized heavier rain, particularly in mountainous
headwater areas, is possible. Forecasting these localized areas in advance is challenging and
may occur across the advisory region. With cooling temperatures, snowmelt rates will ease
compared with the high rates observed over the past week.

River Conditions:
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Rivers through the region are flowing at high seasonal rates due to heavy snowmelt over the
past week. With less capacity in the rivers, runoff from rainfall is expected to lead to high
streamflow over the Thursday through Saturday period. Current hydrologic modelling is
indicating the potential for streamflow in rivers across the region in the 2-year range, with the
potential for some areas to reach the 5-year flow, or higher. These higher ranges are currently
forecast around Revelstoke (Illecillewaet River), Trout Lake (Lardeau River), Nakusp (Kuskanax
Creek) and Edgemont (Inonaoklan Creek). Streamflow simulations are sensitive to rainfall
forecasts, and higher or lower flows than are forecasted may occur, including in areas adjacent
to those with current higher forecasts; caution throughout the region during this period of
rainfall is important.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
