Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast (Update), North Coast (Ended)
Issued: 11:00 AM September 27, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Kingcome River, Wakeman River

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Stewart, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and other coastal communities

   •   Other areas of the Central Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Bella
       Coola, Rivers Inlet, and other coastal communities


Weather Synopsis:

The recent storm system arrived on the North and Central coasts on Thursday with cumulative
precipitation totals ranging from 20 to 100 mm. The largest amounts were measured in the
southern section of the Central Coast near Kingcome Inlet. An additional storm is forecast to
impact the Kingcome region beginning Sunday and continuing to mid-day Monday with possible
precipitation totals of 60 to 125 mm.

River Conditions:

Rivers through the North Coast and most of the Central coast experienced minor peak flows from
the recent storm system. Rivers are receding and no longer a concern, except for the most
southern section of the Central Coast region (e.g. Kingcome Inlet, Wakeman River). The Kingcome
River below Atlatzi River (08GF009) reached 7.82 m at 22:00 PST on Friday, a 5-year water level.
The hydrometric station has malfunctioned but other stations in the region suggest water levels
are now receding. The Wakeman River below Atwaykellesse River (08GF007) reached 656 m3/s
at 22:30 PST on Friday, an ~2-year flow, and has receded quickly. The next storm system arriving
on Sunday is centred on the Kingcome/Wakeman areas and rivers are expected to rise rapidly
again and could reach higher levels than the most recent peaks. Based on the timing of the
precipitation, peaks will likely occur on Monday for the upcoming event.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
