Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Lillooet River, Fraser Valley
Issued: 10:30 AM November 13, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Coast including rivers and tributaries around Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast, Sea-
         to-Sky and North Shore Mountains

    •    Lower Fraser Tributaries including the Lillooet River and tributaries around Pemberton
         and tributaries around the Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

A frontal system is bringing rainfall across the region today and tomorrow. Environment and
Climate Change Canada has rainfall warnings in effect with rainfall amounts of up to 50mm,
with higher amounts over higher terrain expected through Friday. Temperatures are expected
to rise and may contribute to some snowmelt at mid-elevations.

River Conditions:

Rivers are flowing at seasonal to above-seasonal rates due to periods of precipitation over the
past week or two. Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Thursday in response to rainfall, with
peak river levels occurring later on Thursday and into Friday. Additional runoff from rain-on-
snow is possible. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flows up to the 2-
year to 5-year range, which may be the highest flows of the season for areas.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
