Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Lower Fraser Tributaries, South and West Vancouver
Island
Issued: 11:00 AM February 28, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky

    •    Lower Fraser Tributaries including the North Shore Mountains, Fraser Valley, Lillooet
         River and Fraser Canyon

    •    South Vancouver Island

    •    West Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

A frontal system is moving across coastal British Columbia today. Early phases of the storm are
expected to bring snow across mid and high elevations, with freezing levels rising through
Wednesday up to 1500 - 2000 m. Precipitation forecasts between various weather models are
showing some divergence, with moderate to heavy rainfall possible across the region
Wednesday and overnight into Thursday. Numeric precipitation forecasts used into River
Forecast Centre hydrologic modelling is on the high end of weather model forecasts.

River Conditions:

Rivers are rising in response to rainfall from last night and this morning. Continued rises are
expected through Wednesday, and into Thursday in areas. Modelling is indicating that high-end
scenarios of precipitation and rain-on-snow could lead to streamflow reaching or exceeding 2-
year return period flows.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
