Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region
ISSUED: 13:30 PM May 5, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Peace Region, including tributaries around Fort St. John, Taylor, Chetwynd, Moberly
           Lake, Pine Pass, Hudson’s Hope and Dawson Creek


Weather Synopsis:

Sunny conditions with warm temperatures and high freezing levels this week are transitioning
to wetter conditions as an upper low trough arriving on the weekend will bring precipitation to
the region. There is currently uncertainty on the location and severity of potential rainfall late in
the week.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been high over the past week. In plateau areas at low to mid-elevation,
snowpacks are dwindling, however rivers have not reached their peak flow for the season yet.

Precipitation on over the weekend could lead to additional flood hazard. With on-going above
normal temperatures next week, on-going rises in rivers are expected across the region, with
increasing potential for flood hazard in other rivers over the coming days.

Flows at Parnsip River above Misinchinka River (07EE007) are at 2-year to 5-year flows and
Chuchinka Creek near the mouth (07EE009) are at 5-10-year flows. Other rivers are
approaching the 2-year flow level. Flows are expected to rise over the weekend.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning
Ministry of Forests

Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
