Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – West Vancouver Island, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains
Issued: 9:00 AM November 5, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   Howe Sound

   •   North Shore Mountains

Weather Synopsis:

Back-to-back storms are anticipated to impact the south coast of British Columbia today
through Friday, with the heaviest rain forecast on Wednesday evening and Thursday evening.
Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued rainfall warnings through the region,
identifying total rainfall amounts through Friday morning of 70 to 110 mm. Weather modelling
is indicating the potential for higher amounts of rain over mountainous terrain on West
Vancouver Island, Howe Sound and the North Shore Mountains.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly through Wednesday and remain high through Friday
morning. Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows that may reach or exceed the 2-
year return period in some areas. Localized minor flood issues are possible at these locations,
particularly in smaller creek systems.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
