Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Flood Watch – Skeena (NEW), North Coast, Central Coast, North Vancouver Island
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Lillooet River, Lower Mainland, Vancouver Island
(West, East, South)
Issued: 3:00 PM October 22, 2025


The River Forecast Centre has issued a Flood Watch for:

   •   Skeena River tributaries including areas around Terrace and Kitsumkalum (NEW)

   •   North Coast including rivers and tributaries around New Aiyansh-Nass River (NEW),
       Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding areas

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River and Wannock River (Wuikinuxv)

   •   North Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre has issued a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and surrounding areas

   •   Lillooet River near Pemberton and tributaries

   •   Lower Mainland including the North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver and tributaries
       around the Fraser Valley

   •   Vancouver Island – West, East and South

Weather Synopsis:

A storm system is expected to impact coastal British Columbia over the next few days. Rainfall
is expected to begin later Wednesday and into Thursday, starting on the North Coast and
Central Coast. On Thursday the system is expected to slide south, with rain into the South Coast
and Vancouver Island extending into Friday. Rainfall amounts forecast through Friday are in the
90-150+mm range for the North Coast, 60-120+mm in the Central Coast, 60-150+mm on West
and North Vancouver Island, 20-50+mm on East and South Vancouver Island, 50-130+mm on
the South Coast and Lower Mainland, and 40-60 mm around Pemberton.

Temperatures are not anticipated to rise significantly or for extended periods during this event.
Precipitation as snow is possible over higher terrain, and significant snowmelt from rain-on-
snow is not anticipated.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Thursday and into Friday in response to heavy rainfall.
With the focus of heavier rainfall on the North Coast, rivers are forecast to potentially reach or
exceed 5-year return period flows. In other regions, flows reaching or exceeding 2-year flows
are forecasted.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
