Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast (Bella Coola, Kliniklini)
Issued: 11:00AM June 26, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing to a High Streamflow Advisory for the Central Coast
including:

   •   Bella Coola River and tributaries

   •   Kliniklini River

Hot temperatures over the past several days have triggered significant amount of snowmelt at
the higher elevations of the Bella Coola River. Automated snow weather stations (1300-1600m)
are snow-free, however satellite analysis is indicating snow coverage in upper elevations
throughout the watershed. Nearby automated snow weather stations in the South Coast have
been melting at a rate of 40-50 mm per day. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC)
forecasts rising temperatures up to the 35°C range in Bella Coola over the coming days. These
high temperatures will increase substantially the snowmelt and glacier melt which will cause
river levels to continue to rise in the coming days.

Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the Bella Coola River above Hammer River (Water
Survey of Canada gauge 08FB011) is expected to rise from a current rate 415 m3/s to a peak of
approximately 550 m3/s (5-year return period) on Tuesday-Wednesday (June 29-30). The
Kliniklini River east channel (main) near the mouth (08GE002) is currently flowing at
approximately 1300 m3/s (2-year return period flow ) and expected to rise to approximately
1800 m3s (10-year return period flow) over the July 1-2 period. Uncertainty in weather and
hydrologic modelling indicates that higher, or lower, than forecasted flows are possible. Details
of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
