Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

ENDED ‐ High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo, North Thompson, Upper Fraser
ISSUED: 11:30AM December 2, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        Cariboo region including tributary rivers around Williams Lake, 100 Mile House,
         Quesnel and surrounding areas

        North Thompson region including tributary rivers around Blue River, Clearwater and
         surrounding areas

        Upper Fraser River including the McGregor River, Robson Valley and surrounding
         areas.

The third in a series of atmospheric rivers has moved through British Columbia. This system
spilled over into the Interior bringing moderate precipitation and warmer temperatures. Rivers
in the Cariboo, North Thompson and Upper Fraser increased. Although many rivers show
highest flows recorded for this date, they remain well below flood levels. Cooler and drier
weather ahead will lead to a quick recession of these flows.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
