Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Bulkley River
ISSUED: 1:00 PM May 25, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Bulkley River including tributaries around Telkwa, Smithers and Hazelton

A low-pressure system is expected to set up across British Columbia on Friday, bringing the risk
of heavy rainfall across west-central BC. There is still uncertainty of the location of the most
intense rainfall, however there is relatively high confidence in the overall weather pattern.
Environment and Climate Change Canada have indicated the potential for rainfall amounts in
the 15-40 mm range from Friday through Saturday. There will be an easterly flow to this
pattern, with upslope conditions on the eastern slopes of the Bulkley Ranges and Hudson Bay
Range which may lead to higher rainfall amounts. Embedded convection and thunderstorms
may also result in more localized higher rainfall amounts.

High streamflow is expected with the coming rainfall and active snowmelt runoff that is
underway. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for 2-year to 5-year flows in
tributaries around Smithers, including the mainstem of the Bulkley River. Localized streamflow
impacts are possible. Given the current uncertainty in the storm track, it is possible that
adjacent areas also receive heavy rainfall. Flows are expected to reach peak levels on Saturday,
and potentially overnight into Sunday.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
