Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Boundary and Kootenay
Issued: 12:00 PM April 30, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Boundary including the Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries

   •       West Kootenay

   •       East Kootenay

Weather Synopsis:

Temperatures are forecast to remain well above normal across the region into next week as a
new ridge of high pressure persists across British Columbia. In Grand Forks, temperatures in the
upper-20°C to low-30s°C are forecast through Thursday. These temperatures are upwards of
10°C or more above normal for this time of year and may approach or exceed daily
temperature records. The break down in the ridge later in the week may usher in a period of
rainfall and unsettled weather.

River Conditions:

Rivers have begun rising through the region. At mid-elevations, snowmelt has been rapid over
the weekend, with daily rates of melt in the 25-50mm range. Snow ripening is being observed
at upper elevations, and with continuing hot temperatures through this week, snowmelt runoff
is expected to increase substantially.

On-going rises in river levels are expected throughout this coming week, and this may lead to a
period of increased risk of flooding later in the week. This includes areas around the southern
portions of the region and in watersheds draining mid-to-high elevations, including the Kettle
River, Granby River, Moyie River, Salmo River and similar rivers and tributaries.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams
Ministry of Forests

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
