Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region (DOWNGRADED)
ISSUED: 12:00 PM June 18, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Peace Region, including tributaries around Fort St. John, Taylor, Chetwynd, Moberly
       Lake, Pine Pass, Hudson’s Hope and Dawson Creek

A low-pressure system is impacting the Peace Region with rainfall. Precipitation amounts
around 10-50 mm have been observed through the region since Thursday, June 16th. Rivers
have responded to this precipitation throughout the region, rising to their 2-5 year return
period thresholds. Further increases are possible on larger river systems (such as the Moberly
River) where precipitation-driven flows will take more time to move downstream.

Scattered precipitation continues to show within the forecast for the region; however, total
precipitation amounts are within the 10-30 mm range over the next three days. At present,
subsequent increases in stream levels are not forecast to exceed 5-year return period
thresholds for most sites. However, many systems are running at elevated levels through the
region, levels that may persist into the coming days depending on how much rain falls within a
particular watershed. Additionally, Environment and Climate Change currently shows the
potential for isolated thundershowers throughout the region; such storms can drop locally-
significant amounts of precipitation; such watershed-specific intense rain events can have
larger (and difficult to forecast) impacts, especially within smaller watersheds. Please stay up to
date with both current precipitation forecasts, as well as the weather radar, to understand
these risks within your particular region.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
