Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island
ISSUED: 11:00 AM November 3, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Eastern Vancouver Island including the Englishman River

    •    Western Vancouver Island

    •    Central Vancouver Island

Wet weather has been impacting Vancouver Island since yesterday. Rainfall amounts in the 30-
80 mm range have been observed since yesterday on central and eastern Vancouver Island, and
as much as 200 mm around western Vancouver Island. Additional rainfall of up to 50 mm has
been forecasted by Environment and Climate Change Canada through today, with highest
rainfall amounts towards the western side of Vancouver Island.

River levels have risen quickly in response to this storm. Additional rises are possible through
the remainder of Wednesday, and levels are expected to ease on Thursday.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
