Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Bulkley (downgrade), Skeena, Central Coast, Northern Interior
Issued: 3:30 PM May 8, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Bulkley River and tributaries around Smithers and Houston

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Skeena River and tributaries around Terrace and Kitsumkalum

   •   Central Coast including the Atnarko River, Bella Coola River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Lakes Region and tributary rivers around Burns Lake, Fraser Lake, Fort St. James and
       surrounding areas

   •   Omineca including tributaries between Prince George and Mackenzie

Weather Synopsis:

An extended period of high pressure over the past week brought seasonally hot temperatures
across British Columbia. Temperatures are now cooling slightly, and a low pressure system is
expected to bring light to moderate (possibly locally heavy) precipitation to the North and
Central coasts over the weekend. Although melt of the seasonal snowpack continues, melt
rates are slowing with lower temperatures.

River Conditions:

Rivers remain high in response to recent snowmelt, but cooler temperatures slowing melt rates
have brought a downturn in flows. Flows in many snowmelt-fed rivers across the region are
now receding from recent peaks. The Bulkley River near Smithers (08EE005) gauge is currently
at a water level of approx. 4.9 m (750 m3/s) and has been declining steadily since Thursday
(May 7) afternoon. The Skeena River at Usk (08EF001) gauge is currently at a water level of
approx. 8.9 m (3,350 m3/s) and also shows a decreasing trend. (Note that the Water Survey of
Canada indicates that the Skeena at Usk gauge was relocated in January 2025, meaning
historical water level thresholds may not be directly comparable to current near-real-time
observations, adding uncertainty in assessing potential impacts.)
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

In the short term, additional rises from snowmelt will likely be limited by cooler air
temperatures, but rainfall could boost flows. Multiple locations could remain at or near the 2-
year to 5-year flow for several days, and higher flows are possible in areas receiving significant
rainfall. Low-lying flooding and bank erosion are possible at these levels.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
