Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Stikine River, Iskut River
Issued: 12:00 PM June 26, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Stikine River and tributaries

    •    Iskut River

Much of BC is currently under heat warnings related to a historic heat event that has daytimes
highs exceeding 40°C in parts of the central interior. Although forecasted temperatures in
Northwest BC are not nearly as high, forecasts for NW BC are sufficiently high to accelerate
snowmelt in watersheds with remaining snow. The Stikine River at Telegraph Creek (Water
Survey of Canada gauge 08CE001) is currently running at 1908 m3/s (between a 1-2 year return
period), and is forecast to rise and exceed its 2-year return period flows into early to mid next
week (June 29-30th). The Iskut River below Johnson River (WSC gage 08CG001) is currently
running at 2403 m3/s (near a 2-year return period flow), and is forecast to rise to 5-10 year
return period flows into mid next week (June 30th – July 2nd). Other rivers and tributaries in the
region that have significant high elevation and permanent snow are expected to show similar
increases.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
