Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
ISSUED: 9:45AM February 27, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Howe Sound

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries

A series of weather systems are expected to impact south-west British Columbia over the next
few days. The first of these systems is underway, with rain at lower elevations and freezing
levels and snow at mid and upper elevations. A second system is expected to arrive Sunday
night, bringing heavier precipitation through to Monday night, and rising temperatures and
freezing levels. Environment and Climate Change Canada have issued rainfall warnings for the
Howe Sound, Metro Vancouver and Fraser Valley regions, indicating the potential for 50-70mm
of precipitation through Monday night, and into Tuesday morning for the Fraser Valley.
Weather models from Canada (HRDPS, RDPS, GDPS, GEPS) and the US (MM5-NAM, WRF-GFS)
have been forecasting a wide range of potential precipitation scenarios in model runs over the
past few days. Current modelling has eased off slightly on total precipitation amounts, with
heavier rainfall totals currently forecast south of the border into Washington State. The US
National Weather Service has issued a Hydrologic Outlook for Western Washington, identifying
to potential for 3-6 inches (75-150mm) of rain in the Cascades and higher amounts in the
Olympics, with a possibility of minor to moderate flooding and slight chance of major flooding
in that region (Monday through Wednesday). The US Northwest River Forecast Centre is
indicating that significant flooding in the Nooksack River (US side) is likely. Hydrologic modelling
from the Northwest River Forecast Centre is predicting peak river levels on Tuesday however is
not currently predicting flows to reach levels which would lead to overbank spilling into Canada
and the Sumas River drainage.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Rivers in the Metro Vancouver, North Shore Mountains, Howe Sound and Fraser Valley are
expected to see rises through Sunday and Monday in response to successive storms and
associated rainfall and snowmelt. Uncertainties include the overall amount of precipitation that
will fall, locations of heaviest precipitation, and degree of snowmelt from mid-elevations.
Should storm paths vary from what is currently forecasted, flows may be higher or lower than is
currently expected, and high streamflow may extend to additional adjacent areas (e.g. southern
Vancouver Island, Sunshine Coast, Sea-to-Sky, Fraser Canyon).

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
