Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Peace Region
ISSUED: 2:45 PM May 15, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Peace Region, including tributaries around Fort St. John, Taylor, Chetwynd, Moberly
           Lake, Pine Pass, Hudson’s Hope and Dawson Creek


Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather. The highest
temperatures are expected from today through Tuesday. Daytime highs will be 10 to 15
degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees above what
is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last through the
week with temperatures in the mid to upper 20s°C range.

River Conditions:

Snowmelt rates have been high over the weekend, and are expected to remain high through
this week. River levels draining from the Rocky Mountains are rising. Continued rises through
this week, with forecasts indicating rivers reaching 2-year to 5-year flows over the next few
days. Additional rises above these level is possible later in the week or next weekend.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca
Ministry of Forests


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
