Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, East Kootenay, West Kootenay
Maintained: 15:30 PM June 4, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Upper Columbia

    •    East Kootenay

    •    West Kootenay

A strong high-pressure ridge developed over British Columbia over the past week, resulting in
exceptionally hot temperatures and very high freezing levels for the entire region. This heat
resulted in extensive snowmelt at all elevations (where the Upper Columbia, East Kootenay and
West Kootenay accumulated average snowpack during the winter season). The recent heat is
rapidly melting remaining snow at all elevations, and watersheds with significant areas of
remaining snow are currently running at flows near their 2-10 year return periods. Flows are
forecast to peak over the weekend and fall into next week. Currently, there is no imminent
threat of major flooding. However, the hot weather is producing the highest flows of the
season for the region, making the region vulnerable to any upcoming heavy rainfall events.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
