Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast (Downgrade)
Issued: 12:00 PM November 8, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including the Nass River and tributaries around Stewart, Terrace (including
       Kitsumkalum), Gingo
                         ̱ lx, Lax̱ga̱ ltsʼap, Gitlax̱t'aamiks (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert,
       Kitimat, Kemano and other coastal communities

Weather Synopsis:

A strong atmospheric river impacted the north coast of British Columbia this week. According to
the Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes (CW3E), it was classified as an AR3 event.
Areas with heaviest rainfall totals ranged from 90 to 140 mm. Freezing levels increased
significantly during the event and resulted in rain-on-snow conditions in mountainous regions.
Automated snow weather stations within the general region measured snowmelt of 15 to 35 mm
of snow water equivalent. Heavy rainfall has ended and no significant rainfall events are expected
in the upcoming week for the North Coast.

River Conditions:

Rivers rose rapidly due to the heavy rainfall and additional snowmelt, especially within the
Kitimat area. Most rivers peaked on Thursday with Little Wedeene River below Bowbyes Creek
(08FF003) peaking at just under a 10-year flow level. Several other river systems reached near 5-
year flow levels, including the Kitimat River, Hirsch Creek, Renegade Creek and Exchamsiks Creek.
These rivers are now receding but flows still remain relatively high. The Kemano River above
Powerhouse Tailrace (08FE003) stopped reporting on Thursday; based on the CLEVER model, the
flows likely remain between a 2-year and 5-year today.

Further inland, the Kitsumkalum River below Alice Creek (08EG019) is still rising due to the
delayed outflow from Kitsumkalum Lake and nearing a 2-year flow event. There was spillover
from the AR event into the Tahtsa Ranges and the Nanika River at Outlet of Kidprice Lake
(08ED001) continues to increase to nearly a 2-year flow.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
