Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 12:00 PM June 11, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River from Quesnel downstream, including Big Bar, Boston Bar, and the Fraser
       Valley from Hope to the ocean

Rising snowmelt rates and wet weather across the BC Interior is leading to on-going rises in the
Fraser River tributaries and mainstem.

Current flow on the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is 9510 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year
flow) and rising. Flows are forecast to experience modest additional rises, with flows in the
9500 to 9800 m3/s range expected through the rest of the weekend and early into next week.
The Fraser River at Mission (08MH024) is currently at 5.4 m, and expected to rise above 5.5 m
later today, and forecasted to remain in the 5.5 m to 5.8 m range through the weekend and
early into next week.

Upstream tributary flows in the Upper Fraser, Quesnel, Nechako and Thompson Rivers continue
to slowly rise. This is expected to bring continued rises on the lower Fraser River next week.
Precipitation over the next 5 days will primarily contribute to additional runoff in areas of the
South Coast, which will maintain or increase flows in tributaries along the Lower Fraser,
including the Harrison River, Chilliwack River, and Pitt River). Rainfall in the upper headwaters
next week may lead to another period of rising levels on the Fraser River later next week.

With significant mountain snowpack remaining in the Fraser River headwaters, flow may
remain elevated for an extended period over the next 1-2 weeks (or more). During this period,
the river will remain vulnerable to extreme weather events, in particular heavy rainfall or
extreme heat. Short-term (10-day) weather forecasts are not indicating a risk of extreme heat,
however continued unsettled weather with precipitation in the BC Interior is anticipated to
continue being the dominant weather pattern.

Current flow forecasts for the Fraser River are available from the CLEVER model and WARNS
model, with water level forecasts available for locations along the lower Fraser River from Hope
to the ocean.
Ministry of Forests

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
