Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and South Vancouver Island
ISSED: 11:15AM October 28, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Southern Vancouver Island including the San Juan River, Sooke River and surrounding
       tributaries

A moderate atmospheric river event is currently impacting southern Vancouver Island, the
Fraser Valley and surrounding areas. Rainfall amounts in the 25-40 mm range have been
observed this morning, with Environment and Climate Change Canada forecasting additional
amounts in the 40-60 mm range for areas around Port Renfrew, 30-40 mm for areas around the
Malahat, and 30-60 mm for areas around Metro Vancouver and the Fraser Valley for the
remainder of the storm today.

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly through Thursday in response to rainfall, with peak flows
expected later Thursday or into Friday for larger rivers, including the Chilliwack River. Current
modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year range.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
