Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo, North Thompson, Upper Fraser
ISSUED: 12:30PM November 30, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        Cariboo region including tributary rivers around Williams Lake, 100 Mile House,
         Quesnel and surrounding areas

        North Thompson region including tributary rivers around Blue River, Clearwater and
         surrounding areas

        Upper Fraser River including the McGregor River, Robson Valley and surrounding
         areas.

A third in a series of atmospheric rivers has arrived on coastal British Columbia. The current
system is centered on the Central Coast with rainfall amounts potentially reaching 100‐200 mm.
Based on the direction of flow for the atmospheric river, there is risk of moderate to heavy rain
spilling over into the Interior. Areas at risk include the Cariboo region, the North Thompson and
the Upper Fraser. Major flooding is not expected at this time, but rivers may experience a rapid
increase. If temperatures in the mountainous regions remain cool during the storm event it will
result in significant growth to the snowpack.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
