Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Bella Coola (DOWNGRADED), Dean River
Issued: 10:00 AM May 20, 2023


The River Forecast Centre has the current areas under High Streamflow Advisory:

   •       Bella Coola River and tributaries, including the Atnarko River and surrounding areas
           (DOWNGRADED)

   •       Dean River

Weather Synopsis:

A high-pressure ridge that has brining seasonally hot temperatures to the region is expected to
move out of region on Saturday. Temperatures are expected to ease on Sunday.

River Conditions:

Streamflow in the Central Coast, Nuxalk Territory, and Tsilhqot’in Territory flowing high due to
snowmelt. Current flows at Dean River below Tanswanket Creek (Water Survey of Canada
gauge 08FC003) is flowing at approximately 125m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). Flows
on the Bella Coola River above Hammer Creek (08FB011) is currently at 496 m3/s (2-year flow)
and has seen daily peak levels stabilize over the past few days. Flows are expected to remain
high on Saturday (May 20th) and begin to ease on Sunday and into next week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
