Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory - South Coast (Downgrade)
Issued: 10:45 AM March 21, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Shore Mountains and Metro Vancouver tributaries

   •   Howe Sound and the Sea-to-Sky Corridor including Squamish and Pemberton

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Lower Fraser tributaries and the Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

A multi‑day atmospheric river impacted coastal British Columbia this week, bringing significant
rainfall and snowmelt. Between Monday and Friday, precipitation totals ranged from 40 to 300
mm, with the heaviest amounts recorded around Howe Sound, the North Shore Mountains, the
Coast Mountains, and into the Fraser Valley. Although mid- and high‑elevation areas initially
accumulated snow early in the event, rising freezing levels soon in the storm led to warming
temperatures and net snow water equivalent losses of 20 to 100 mm at automated snow
weather stations from Monday through today, contributing additional runoff. Precipitation
eased yesterday, and cooler temperatures have since reduced snowmelt across the region.

River Conditions:

Rivers across the region continue to recede following the peaks observed in the past few days.
Many systems reached modest levels, generally in the 1-2 year return period range; however,
some rivers in areas that received the heaviest precipitation and snowmelt reached 5-10 year
return periods or higher and are now steadily declining. Flows in larger and lake‑fed river
systems remain elevated but are expected to continue easing through the weekend and into
next week.

Peak flows recorded in the past few days included:

   •   KANAKA CREEK NEAR WEBSTER CORNERS (08MH076) – 110 m³/s – 5-10 year return period

   •   CHILLIWACK RIVER AT VEDDER CROSSING (08MH001) – 600 m³/s – 5 year return period

   •   COQUIHALLA RIVER BELOW NEEDLE CREEK (08MF062) – 44 m³/s – 5-10 year return period
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

    •    COQUIHALLA RIVER ABOVE ALEXANDER CREEK (08MF068) – 370 m³/s – 2-5 year return period

    •    SUMAS RIVER NEAR HUNTINGDON (08MH029) – 30 m³/s – 2-5 year return period

    •    CEDAR CREEK ABOVE THE MOUTH (08MH166) – 63 m³/s – 2-5 year return period

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for challenging driving
conditions and potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never drive
through flood waters or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
