Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island
Issued: 1:00 PM March 15, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Upper Fraser including the Robson Valley and tributaries in the Prince George region

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river impacting the B.C. coast is forecast to bring spillover precipitation into the
Upper Fraser region through early next week. Periods of precipitation are expected to reach
inland areas including Prince George beginning Monday, accompanied by rising temperatures
and increasing freezing levels.

River Conditions:

Rivers and streams in the Upper Fraser and Robson Valley are expected to begin rising
beginning Tuesday as precipitation increases and temperatures warm. While widespread
flooding is not expected at this time, elevated flows are possible and smaller rivers and streams
may respond quickly to periods of heavier precipitation.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for challenging driving
conditions and potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never drive
through flood waters or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
