Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Watch – Kingcome (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Lillooet River, Lower Mainland, Vancouver Island
(West, East, South) (Maintained), North Coast (Downgrade), Central Coast (Downgrade),
northern Vancouver Island (Downgrade)
Issued: 12:00PM October 24, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   Kingcome River

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Rivers/tributaries to the Skeena River around Terrace

   •   Kitimat River and Kemano River including tributaries

   •   North Coast including rivers and tributaries around New Aiyansh-Nass River and Prince
       Rupert

   •   Central Coast

   •   North Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and surrounding areas

   •   Lillooet River near Pemberton and tributaries

   •   Lower Mainland including the North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver and tributaries
       around the Fraser Valley

   •   Vancouver Island – West, East and South

Weather Synopsis:

A storm system is currently impacting coastal British Columbia. Rainfall began late Wednesday
and has continued into Friday, starting on the North Coast before sliding south and impacting
the Central Coast, South Coast and Vancouver Island. The heavy rainfall has ended for areas on
the North Coast, Central Coast and northern Vancouver Island. Precipitation totals for the event
on the North Coast ranged from 30-135 mm, with highest amount focused near Kitimat (105-
135 mm). The Central Coast measured precipitation totals of 30-110 mm for the event, and
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

northern Vancouver Island reported a range of 45-180 mm. On Friday the system is still
impacting the rest of Vancouver Island, Kingcome Inlet and the South Coast. The total
precipitation forecast for Central Vancouver Island for Friday ranges from 40-90 mm at higher
elevations. Forecasts for today range from 15-110 mm on the South Coast and Lower Mainland,
and 10-30 mm around Whistler and Pemberton.

Heaviest precipitation is expected to end for Vancouver Island by this afternoon and by this
evening for the Lower Mainland.

River Conditions:

Rivers rose rapidly in for the North Coast, Central Coast and northern Vancouver Island. With
the rainfall over, these rivers are receding rapidly.

A summary of rivers reaching high levels for the North Coast include:

   •   Renegade Creek near Kitimat (08FF006) peaked at 14.6 m3/s (10Y) on Thursday at 12:05pm PST.

   •   Little Wedeene River below Bowbyes Creek (08FF003) peaked at 296 m3/s (close to 5Y) on
       Thursday at 1:50pm PST.

   •   Hirsch Creek near the Mouth (08FF002) peaked at 444 m3/s (2Y to 5Y) on Thursday at 2:30pm
       PST.

   •   Kitimat River below Hirsch Creek (08FF001) peaked at 1820 m3/s (2Y to 5Y) on Thursday
       at 7:10pm PST.

On northern Vancouver Island, the following rivers reached significant levels:

   •   San Josef River below Sharp Creek (08HF006) peaked at 105 m3/s (2Y to 5Y) on Thursday at
       6:55pm PST.

   •   Pugh Creek near Nahwitti Lake (08HF012) peaked at 79.7 m3/s (5Y to 10Y) on Thursday at
       4:05pm PST.

The Water Survey of Canada gauge for Kingcome River below Atlatzi River (08GF009) peaked at
8.603 m (20Y to 50Y) water level at 3:15am PST on Friday and is slowly starting to recede

Rivers over the rest of Vancouver Island are rising or currently reaching peak levels. Rivers that
are still rising are likely to peak later today. For the South Coast, most rivers are likely to peak
tonight or on Saturday depending upon the timing of precipitation and size of the watershed.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
