Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Interior, Cariboo, Thompson, Upper Columbia, Upper Fraser
Issued: 1:30 PM August 23, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •      Central Interior including tributaries around Merritt, Cache Creek, Ashcroft

    •      Cariboo region including tributaries around Nazko, 100 Mile House, Williams Lake and
           Quesnel

    •      Thompson Region including tributaries around Kamloops, Clearwater, Valemount, and
           Salmon Arm

    •      Upper Columbia including tributaries around Revelstoke and Golden

    •      Upper Fraser tributaries including tributaries around McBride

Weather Synopsis:

A low-pressure weather system is forecast track across southern BC this evening. Rain, at times
heavy, is forecasted to begin this evening. Embedded thundershowers may lead to localized
high intensity rainfall. Rainfall is expected to persist through until Sunday across the region,
with rainfall totals forecasted in the 15 to 40mm range, with the potential for higher amounts
locally.

River Conditions:

Smaller river systems are most susceptible to rapid rises due to heavy rainfall during this event.
Rapid rises in rivers are expected overnight Friday and through Saturday, with peak levels
forecasted on Saturday and Sunday. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for
flows in the 2-year to 5-year return period level in areas. Enhanced responses from areas with
recent wildfire burns is possible.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
