Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
ISSUED: 1:30PM January 9, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Howe Sound

      Sunshine Coast

      Sea‐to‐Sky

      North Shore Mountains

      Metro Vancouver

      Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries

A significant weather pattern change will occur this week. Temperatures are forecast to
increase considerably compared to the recent extended cold weather and snowfalls.
Additionally, moderate to heavy rainfall is expected for Tuesday and Wednesday (January 11‐
12). The combination of low elevation snowpack, warming temperatures and heavy rainfall will
result in rapid rises for creeks and rivers, especially at low and mid‐elevation watersheds on the
coast. It could result in minor to significant flooding. Rivers are expected to begin increasing on
Tuesday and likely peak Wednesday or Thursday. The storms are still several days away, so the
exact location and intensity of heaviest rainfall is still uncertain. Areas that experienced flooding
last year may have added vulnerabilities due to erosion and higher baseflow conditions.

The upcoming temperatures are not forecast to be as warm as the atmospheric river events in
November. It’s likely the upcoming storm systems will add to the very well‐developed
snowpack at the higher elevations. The River Forecast Centre will be releasing the January 1st
Snow and Water Supply Bulletin later this week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
