Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Coquihalla River
Issued: 2:30 PM May 4, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the:

   •       Coquihalla River

Weather Synopsis:

The long period of hot weather is expected to end on Friday. A trough of low pressure is
expected to move into B.C. on Friday and Saturday, bringing the potential for moderate
precipitation (15-25 mm) in the Coquihalla River watershed.

River Conditions:

Flows in the Coquihalla River have been rising due to snowmelt. Current flows at Coquihalla
River below Needle Creek (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MF062) is flowing at
approximately 23 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow). Flows in the 2-year to 5-year range are
currently forecasted over this weekend.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
