Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast (NEW)
Issued: 8:15AM June 3, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

       Central Coast, including the Bella Coola River and Atnarko River

A strong high‐pressure ridge has been over British Columbia this week resulting in the warmest
temperatures of the season. The automated snow weather station 3C08P Burnt Bridge Creek
(elevation 1329 m) reached maximum temperatures of 18°C over the past two days and
remained above 0°C for five consecutive days. The April 1st Snow Basin Index for the Central
Coast was 146% of normal, indicating a higher than normal snowpack for the region. The 3C08P
Burnt Bridge Creek station is melting snow quickly with approximately 1/3rd of the seasonal
snow remaining. The larger river systems in the region are rising and expected to stay at higher
levels longer than the typically flashy flow events in the fall. The Atnarko River near the Mouth
(08FB006) was flowing at approximately 180 m3/s (between 2‐year and 5‐year flow) this
morning. The Bella Coola River above Hammer Creek (08FB011) is approximately 435 m3/s
(nearing a 2‐year flow). The recent atmospheric river event that affected the North Coast did
not impact areas around Bella Coola and the recent rises have been driven by snowmelt alone.

A moderate storm system is forecast to approach coastal BC on Friday through Sunday.
Environment and Climate Change Canada is forecasting precipitation totals for the event of 30‐
60 mm for Bella Bella and 20‐30 mm further inland at Bella Coola. There is a risk that rain on a
melting snowpack will increase the flows for the Atnarko and Bella Coola River. This is not
predicted to a severe or heavy rainfall event like typical fall storms, but since flows are already
relatively high from snowmelt, the rivers are vulnerable to any additional precipitation input.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
