Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South East
Issued: 8:15 AM March 20, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Boundary Region including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   West Kootenay including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   East Kootenay including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   Parts of the Upper Columbia including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

Weather Synopsis:

A multi-day atmospheric river continues to impact British Columbia and Washington State.
Although the coast is receiving the brunt of the storm, there is potential for significant spillover
precipitation into the south east Interior. Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued
rainfall warnings for parts of the region and precipitation totals for this region today could
reach to 40-70 mm. With freezing levels near or above 2000-2500 m there is the potential for
snowmelt and rain-on-snow to contribute to additional runoff. Rain will likely subside this
evening and freezing levels will trend downwards.

River Conditions:

While widespread flooding is not expected, pooling on roads and in low-lying areas and
elevated flows are possible especially in smaller and low elevation rivers. Streams may respond
quickly to periods of heavier precipitation. Peak flows are likely to occur on today into
tomorrow depending on the timing of the heaviest rainfall and the size and location of affected
river systems.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
