Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island
ISSUED: 2:00PM April 1, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Howe Sound (Sea‐to‐Sky Corridor)

      Sunshine Coast

      North Shore Mountains

      Metro Vancouver

      Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries

      West Vancouver Island

      East Vancouver Island

      South Vancouver Island

      Central Vancouver Island

A significant weather pattern shift is expected to impact south‐west British Columbia over the
upcoming weekend. Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather
Statement for Heavy Rain from Sunday morning to Monday morning for areas on the Sunshine
Coast, Sea‐to‐Sky Corridor, the North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver, and the Lower Fraser
Valley. Most recent weather model results forecast precipitation totals of 40 to 80 mm for the
Sunshine Coast and Howe Sound, 40 to 80 mm for Metro Vancouver, and 100 to 150 mm for
the North Shore Mountains. Vancouver Island could experience relatively high rainfall, with
coastal sections reaching 100 to 150 mm total and 30 to 75 mm over central and eastern
portions of the island. There is still high uncertainty in precipitation totals as the event is several
days out. Freezing levels will range from 1,200 to 1,500 m through the event. Colder air will
arrive Monday and drop freezing levels to 1,000 m. Precipitation occurring next week will likely
fall as snow in the mountains.

River Forecast Centre hydrological models are showing the potential for significant increases if
the forecasted precipitation occurs. Current streamflow in rivers and creeks are normal to
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
above normal for this time of year due to warm weather over the past few days which melted
lower elevation snow. Baseflow conditions through winter and into spring have been relatively
high due to the extreme rainfall in late 2021. The upcoming system is not as strong as the
atmospheric rivers that occurred in November, but it is a potent storm for April. Primary
concerns will be for smaller and lower elevation rivers. Based on the current weather forecast,
flows will rise rapidly on Sunday and into Monday, with peaks likely occurring throughout
Monday.

The incoming direction of the storm system is expected to be southwesterly and not directly
funneling up the Coquihalla like the November 13‐15 event. The forecast precipitation for the
Coquihalla Summit is 20‐40 mm.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
