Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South East
Issued: 10:15 AM December 04, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   West Kootenay including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   East Kootenay including lower elevation and valley bottom tributaries

   •   Elk River near Fernie

Weather Synopsis:

An atmospheric river arrives to the South Coast of B.C. today. Its direction and intensity will spill
precipitation over the coastal mountains into the south east Interior. Heavy rainfall totals of 75
to 100 mm are forecast between the Paulson Summit to Kootenay Pass and the Elk Valley near
Fernie from Monday night to Thursday morning.

The storm system will bring a wave of warmer air, quickly elevating freezing levels and
increasing the possibility of snow melt and rain-on-snow where snow has accumulated. On top
of the forecast heavy rainfall, additional runoff inputs from rain-on-snow may be substantial.

River Conditions:

Lower elevation rivers and tributaries in the West and East Kootenay regions are expected to
begin rising on Tuesday. Peak flows from the event are likely to occur on Wednesday or
Thursday depending on the timing of the heaviest rainfall and the size and location of affected
river systems. Recent low elevation snowfall on a relatively shallow seasonal snowpack will
exacerbate the situation. A rain-on-snow event at lower elevations will add additional water
input from melting snow. Rain-on-snow events are very difficult to model with accuracy.


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
