Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii, North Coast, Central Coast, Vancouver Island North
and West, South Coast, Lower Fraser tributaries
Issued: 12:30 PM January 9, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   North Coast (outer coastal areas)

   •   Central Coast (outer coastal areas)

   •   Vancouver Island - West

   •   Vancouver Island - North

   •   South Coast

   •   Lower Fraser including areas around Pemberton, Fraser Valley – North and Metro
       Vancouver

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers is anticipated to impact coastal British Columbia over the
weekend and into next week. Prolonged periods of moderate to heavy rain are possible, along
with warmer temperatures and additional runoff from rain-on-snow melt. Along the North
Coast, Haida Gwaii, Central Coast and Vancouver Island rain is expected to begin on Friday and
continue through the weekend, with the heaviest periods of rain forecasted on Saturday
through Sunday. On the South Coast and Lower Mainland, the heaviest period of rain is
anticipated mid-day Sunday through Monday. Temperatures are expected to rise through the
weekend and into next week, with the potential for significant snowmelt on Sunday and
Monday.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-snow melt runoff
throughout the coastal region. Peak river levels are expected on Saturday and Sunday in
northern regions, and on Sunday through Monday on Vancouver Island and the South Coast.
Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year range, with the
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

potential for higher flows. Extra vigilance is appropriate through the weekend and into Monday,
with the expectation that this weather pattern could lead to escalating flood hazard.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
