Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Petitot River and Fontas River (DOWNGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – Liard River (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 1:15PM June 24, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for tributaries of the
Liard River, including:

   •   Petitot River

   •   Fontas River

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Liard River and tributaries

Extreme rainfall last week has led to on-going high flows in areas of North-east British Columbia
within the Liard River basin and key tributaries.

Flows are now receding across the region. Flows remain high on the Fontas River, with flows of
450 m3/s (between a 5-year and a 10-year return period flow) being observed at the Water
Survey of Canada gauge (10CA001) on Thursday. Flows are now receding. In other areas, flows
have been receding since the weekend, with flows in the 2-year to 5-year return period still
being observed in some locations, including the Liard River mainstem and tributaries reaching
into Yukon Territory.

Hot temperatures and snowmelt from higher elevations may keep rivers high over the
weekend. Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
