Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Fraser River
ISSUED: 11:45 AM June 8, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Fraser River from Quesnel downstream, including Big Bar, Boston Bar, and the Fraser
       Valley from Hope to the ocean

Rising snowmelt rates and wet weather across the BC Interior is leading to on-going rises in the
Fraser River tributaries and mainstem. Flows in headwater tributaries is expected to work its
way into the lower Fraser River at Hope and downstream over the next two to three days.
Moderate rainfall is forecast for Thursday, which is expected to increase local inflow from local
tributaries along the lower Fraser River.

Current flow on the Fraser River at Hope (08MF005) is 8400 m3/s (approaching a 2-year flow)
and rising. Flows around 9000 m3/s are expected by Friday. The Fraser River at Mission
(08MH024) is currently at 4.8 m, and forecast to rise above 5.0 m by Saturday.

With significant mountain snowpack remaining in the Fraser River headwaters, flow may
remain elevated for an extended period over the next 1-2 weeks (or more). During this period,
the river will remain vulnerable to extreme weather events, in particular heavy rainfall or
extreme heat. Long-range (10-day) weather forecasts are not indicating a risk of extreme heat,
however continued unsettled weather with precipitation in the BC Interior is anticipated to
continue being the dominant weather pattern.

Current flow forecasts for the Fraser River are available from the CLEVER model and WARNS
model, with water level forecasts available for locations along the lower Fraser River from Hope
to the ocean.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
