Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast, Haida Gwaii and North
Vancouver Island
Updated: 12:30PM October 1, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding
       areas

   •   Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries

The River centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   North Vancouver Island

A series of strong fall storm systems have moved over the North and Central Coast regions in
the recent days and are expected to extend into the weekend. The observed total rainfall
ranges from 50 to 200 mm in these regions since Wednesday. Environment and Climate Change
Canada (ECCC) forecasts additional 20 to 150 mm of rainfall for these regions for the weekend.

The rainfall has caused significant rises in the smaller river systems in these regions, most of
which have peaked at levels between the 2- and 5-year return periods yesterday or this
morning. Based on the current hydrologic modeling, the rivers in these regions are expected to
peak again at the similar levels (2- to 5-year return periods) this weekend. Details of the COFFEE
and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
