Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Vancouver Island
Issued: 9:30 AM September 26, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky, North Shore Mountains,
       Metro Vancouver

   •   Vancouver Island

   ***NOTE: The ongoing job action by the B.C. General Employees’ Union (BCGEU)
   and the Professional Employees Association (PEA) has affected River Forecast Centre
   (RFC) data systems and work processes. Due to these impacts, RFC staff are unable to
   access the full range of information that is typically used to generate forecasts and
   advisories. As a result, current forecasts have a higher degree of uncertainty and should
   be interpreted with caution.***


Weather Synopsis:

A strong storm system currently impacting the North and Central Coast is drifting southward
along the B.C. coast. Rain will begin impacting Vancouver Island mid-day Friday and reach the
South Coast by the evening. The first pulse of rainfall likely switches to showers by late Saturday
with the highest totals forecast for the west-facing slopes on Vancouver Island with up to 100
mm precipitation. An additional storm system arrives on Vancouver Island on Sunday and
continues into Monday, especially for the South Coast. Currently, the cumulative rainfall for the
four-day event has lowland areas of Vancouver Island and the Lower Mainland ranging from 40
to 70 mm. These totals are subject to change based on updated weather models.

River Conditions:

Many rivers on Vancouver Island and the South Coast remain below normal for this time of year
due to drought conditions. It’s unlikely the incoming storm system will bring heavy enough
precipitation to cause widespread flooding on Vancouver Island or South Coast rivers. Rivers
are expected to rise rapidly beginning Friday and continue through Saturday in response to
rainfall. Rivers are expected to recede before the second storm event increases flows again
Sunday and into Monday. The first heavy rainfall event of the fall season for coastal watersheds
historically has a subdued response due to low baseflow conditions and drier soils. While
rainfall totals may not be high enough for specific flood concerns, high flows and rapid rises in
rivers can pose a hazard for road washouts and public safety for recreationalists.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
