Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Boundary Range, North Coast, Central Coast
Issued: 11:15 AM September 21, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Boundary Range extending north to Tahltan and Telegraph Creek, including the lower
       Stikine River, the Iskut River, and tributaries

   •   North Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Stewart, Gitlax̱t'aamiks
       (New Aiyansh), Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, and other coastal communities

   •   Central Coast including tributaries and smaller streams around Bella Coola, Rivers Inlet,
       and other coastal communities

Weather Synopsis:

As the fall storm season begins, a series of coastal storms are delivering heavy precipitation. Over
the past few days, rainfall totals on the North and Central coasts have been moderate to heavy,
with as much as 80-100 mm recorded in some areas from Friday to Saturday (September 19 to
20). A brief lull in precipitation is expected before another storm arrives on Monday (September
22). The trajectory of this upcoming storm is expected to be broadly similar to that of the Friday-
Saturday storm. Rainfall totals will likely be moderate to heavy for the Monday storm, with
current forecasts indicating 50-90 mm over most of the North and Central coasts and higher
totals possible in some areas, potentially over 150 mm. The storm may extend northwards along
the Boundary Range, with the Alaska panhandle likely receiving the brunt of the storm but some
spillover possible on the eastern (British Columbia) side of the range.

River Conditions:

The current storm pattern marks a substantial shift in weather and streamflow conditions as
summer comes to an end. Despite a prolonged period of drier weather in late summer, due to
the Friday-Saturday storm, current river levels are now elevated in many of the same areas
expected to be impacted by the upcoming Monday storm. The shift to heavy precipitation and
higher flows is considered to be a particularly notable risk due to the rapid change from weeks
of lower flow conditions as well as seasonal hunting, fishing, and recreational activity on the
coast, which may mean that unusually high numbers of people are in and around coastal streams.

It is also important to note that streamflow impacts may be especially severe in smaller streams,
many of which are not gauged. Smaller streams may respond to rainfall much more rapidly and
dramatically than larger rivers, with higher flows relative to their channel size.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Streamflows will likely begin rising rapidly with the arrival of rainfall on Monday, and flows may
continue rising for several days. Peak flows in most systems are anticipated to occur early to mid-
next week.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
