Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Coldwater River, Similkameen River and Skagit River
Issued: 2:45 PM December 15, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Coldwater River and surrounding areas

    •    Similkameen River and tributaries including upstream Tulameen River

    •    Skagit River and surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

A series of atmospheric rivers (AR) have moved into British Columbia since Sunday and are
expected to continue through this week. The soil moisture has been saturated by the previous
AR events. Additional 10 to 25 mm of 24-hour precipitation is expected for these regions for the
coming days. Warmer than normal temperatures are also expected and will trigger more
snowmelt.

River Conditions:

The river levels are currently relatively high and rising. The latest hydrological modeling
demonstrates that the streamflows in these rivers are expected to rise to the 2 to 5-year return
period levels and peaked tonight, drop slightly tomorrow and then rise again on Wednesday.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
