Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, North Shore Mountains
Issued: 11:00 AM August 14, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Coast, including Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky, Pemberton and surrounding areas

    •    North Shore Mountains

Weather Synopsis:

An unseasonably wet frontal system is forecast to cross the south coast on Friday, bringing
moderate to heavy rain across the region. Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued
rainfall warnings, indicating the potential for 50mm of rainfall, and locally in excess of 80mm
over higher terrain. The heaviest rainfall rates are anticipated on Friday afternoon.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Friday, and potentially into early Saturday in response to
rainfall. In glaciated river systems, such as the Squamish River, current streamflow is high due
to recent warm weather and runoff from glacial melt, and these rivers may experience
enhanced hazard for high flow during this period. In other areas, particularly around Howe
Sound and the North Shore Mountains, high streamflow in response to heavy rain is expected.
While rainfall amounts are expected to be lower away from the coast, headwater areas around
Whistler and Pemberton may still experience high streamflow from the rainfall. Current
streamflow modelling is indicating the potential for flows around the 2-year range. While these
levels may not be high enough for specific flood concerns, high flows and rapid rises in rivers
can pose a hazard for road washouts and public safety for recreationalists.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
