Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast, Vancouver Island, South Coast
Issued: 1:30 PM November 2, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River,
       Owikeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas

   •   Vancouver Island

   •   Lower Mainland, including Metro Vancouver, North Shore Mountains, Fraser Valley
       tributaries.

   •   Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky including the Lillooet River

The next fall storm is anticipated to impact the British Columbia coast over the coming days.
Rainfall is anticipated to start on Thursday on the Central Coast, with rain shifting southward to
Vancouver Island and the South Coast into Friday. Current forecasts indicate areas on the
Central Coast, North Vancouver Island and south into Washington State (e.g., the Olympic
Peninsula and Cascade Mountains) as those with the potentially heaviest rainfall. In these
areas, total rainfall amounts the 60-100 mm range are anticipated with this storm. Other areas
of the coast are forecast to receive 50-80 mm of rain, with higher amounts possible over higher
terrain and smaller amounts in lower elevations and in lee slopes (e.g., South Vancouver Island,
East Vancouver Island). Freezing levels are expected to see a modest rise, with the potential for
some additional runoff from rain-on-snow at mid-elevations.

River levels are expected to rise Thursday for the Central Coast, Thursday into Friday for
Vancouver Island, and Friday for the South Coast. Current forecasting indicates the potential for
rivers to reach 2-year return period flows in areas. Localized high flows may be possible
throughout the region, with additional sensitivity due to freezing levels and additional
snowmelt runoff or snow accumulation, high short-duration rainfall intensities, and whether
the storm track stalls during its southward progression.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
