Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island
ISSUED: 12:00PM November 13, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Howe Sound

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Sea-to-Sky

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   Fraser Valley including the Chilliwack River and surrounding tributaries

   •   South Vancouver Island

   •   West Vancouver Island

   •   East Vancouver Island, including the Englishman River

A significant atmospheric river is expected to impact southern coastal regions of British
Columbia starting today. This is forecast to bring heavy rainfall throughout Saturday night and
Sunday, and ease on Monday. Environment and Climate Change Canada have rainfall warnings
in place, with the heaviest rainfall expected around Howe Sound and the Fraser Valley, with
upwards of 150mm total rainfall amounts expected by Monday. Lesser rainfall amounts (75-
100mm) are forecast for other regions. Temperatures are expected to rise throughout the
atmospheric river, with freezing levels pushing 2000 m elevation on Sunday before cooling on
Monday. Additional snowmelt of recent snow accumulations at mid-elevations (1000-1500m) is
expected to add to river runoff.

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly throughout Sunday in response to rainfall, and ease on
Monday as the heaviest rainfall passes. Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows
in the 2-year to 5-year range.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
