Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island and South Coast
Issued: 2:30PM September 22, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for Vancouver Island and the
South Coast including:

    •       Vancouver Island

    •       Sunshine Coast

    •       Howe Sound

    •       Lower Mainland including Metro Vancouver, North Shore Mountains and Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

A strong storm system is approaching the coast and expected to arrive Sunday night. The storm
will have the potential to produce moderate to heavy precipitation across Vancouver Island, the
Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Lower Mainland, and the Lower Fraser Valley from Sunday night
into the middle of next week. The heaviest precipitation is expected to occur Monday and
Tuesday. Cumulative rainfall amounts over the Sunday to Tuesday period could reach 150 mm
or more on western portions of Vancouver Island and in the mountains, and in the 20 to 60+
mm range in other areas. There is uncertainty in the exact locations and amounts of the
heaviest rainfall.

River Conditions:

The upcoming storm will mark a significant shift in streamflow runoff conditions which have
been dominated by low flow drought conditions through the summer. Rivers are expected to
rise rapidly in response to rainfall starting late Sunday into Monday, with peak flows occurring
Monday through Wednesday, depending on rainfall timing and watershed size and response.

Current river levels are extremely low in most areas; conditions are expected to be dynamic
with periods of rapid river rises. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-flowing bodies
of water is dangerous:

        •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

        •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
             streamflow rivers or streams
Ministry of Forests

      •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
           drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
