Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Lower Thompson River/Nicola River
ISSUED: 12:15 PM June 10, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   The Lower Thompson River

   •   Nicola River

Snowmelt at most elevations through the upper reaches of the North Thompson have raised
stream levels through the region. This pulse of water is now travelling downstream into the
lower reaches of the Thompson River before it’s confluence with the Fraser River. Although
there is no significant precipitation within the weather forecast, snowmelt-driven higher flows
are forecast to persist into the short term. Currently, the Thompson River near Spences Bridge
Water Survey of Canada gage (08LF051) is running at 2730 m3/s (just below it’s 2-year return
period flow) and is forecast to rise between 2-5 year return period flows over the coming days.
It’s important to note that while it’s likely that the river will rise (given the steady snowmelt
from a larger-than-normal snowpack for this time of year), there is no significant precipitation
or heat in the forecast that would produce major increases in flows through the Thompson
River mainstem.

Within the Nicola River, precipitation from the past week is still moving through the
watershed’s reservoirs. Although long term water monitoring sites were destroyed in the
November 2021 event, it is likely that this pulse of water will increase water flows downstream,
although major flows are not expected given that significant precipitation is not currently
forecast for the region. Please note that the current CLEVER forecast for the station at Nicola
River near Spences Bridge (08LG006) is not based on observed discharge but on calculated
discharge based on upstream stations, and is meant to indicate general trends. This general
trend is for minor increases into the weekend; this forecast is lower than the peaks observed at
the beginning of June due to mainly convective precipitation.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests


A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
