Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Maintained: High Streamflow Advisory – Mainstream of Upper/Middle/Lower
Fraser, Quesnel and North Thompson
Updated: 12:30 PM June 5, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining the High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Mainstream of Upper/Middle/Lower Fraser River

    •    Quesnel River and Cariboo River

    •    North Thompson River

Responding to the high temperatures in the above regions this past week, the river levels of the
mainstream of the Fraser River and tributaries have risen significantly, and the smaller
tributaries have peaked by yesterday. However, the mainstream of the Fraser River and large
tributaries like the Quesnel River and North Thompson River continue to rise. Based on the
current hydrological modeling, the Upper and Middle Fraser River is expected to peak at flows
between the 5- and 10-year return periods today or tomorrow, and the Lower Fraser River is
expected to peak at about the 5-year return period on Sunday or next Monday. The Quesnel
River, Cariboo River and North Thompson River are expected to peak at flows between the 2-
and 5-year return periods today or tomorrow. Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts can be
found at http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
