Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Liard Basin
Issued: 12:30 PM July 1st, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for streams within the Liard
basin including:

   •   Muskwa River and tributaries

   •   Petitot River and tributaries

   •   Toad River and tributaries

   •   Smith River and tributaries

   •   Small tributaries (gauged and ungauged) of the Liard River

A convective thunderstorm system is currently moving through the Northeast part of the
province (including the Fort Nelson area west to Fort Halkett and south to the northeast parts
of the Williston basin). Up to 100 mm of rain are currently forecast for the very northeast
corner of the province over the next three days, while other areas are forecast to experience 40
to 70 mm of rain over the next three days. Much of this rain is associated with thunderstorm
activity, and it is likely that specific regions within this broad area will experience very heavy
downpours (which can be difficult to predict with accuracy in advance). Current hydrologic
modelling indicates the potential for most sites to reach 2-5 year return periods; however,
forecasting the impact of such a system is challenging given that there are few hydrometric
monitoring stations through the region; this advisory thus includes ungauged systems through
the region.

Some highlights of current hydrologic forecasts include:

   -   The Muskwa River near Fort Nelson (10CD001) is running at 820 m3/s (<2 year return period
       flow), and is forecast to reach 2-5 year return period flows peaking into Saturday.

   -   The Toad River above Nonda Creek (10BE004) is running at 212 m3/s (a 2 year return period
       flow) and is forecast to potentially reach 50 year return period flows into Saturday.

   -   Smith River near the Mouth (10BE013) is running at 42.4 m3/s (< 2 year return period) and is
       forecast to potentially rise to 2-5 year return period flows into Saturday and Sunday.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
