Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Liard River above Hyland River
Maintained: 15:30 June 4, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the Liard River above
the Hyland River, including:

    •    COTTONWOOD RIVER ABOVE BASS CREEK (10AC005)

    •    Liard River and tributaries above the Hyland River

Continuous high temperatures up to 21 °C early this week have triggered significant amounts of
snowmelt in this region, which have caused significant rises in the river levels. Stream levels are
now stabilizing or dropping in smaller streams.

    -    The COTTONWOOD RIVER ABOVE BASS CREEK (10AC005), a tributary of the Dease River (itself a
         Liard River tributary), is currently running at a flow between the 2-5 year return period and is
         dropping. This drop is forecast to continue into the weekend.

    -    The LIARD RIVER AT UPPER CROSSING (a Yukon Territory river) (10AA001) is currently running at
         a its 2-year return period. It is forecast to continue to rise into Friday-Saturday (2-5 year return
         period flows), and drop beginning next week.

Smaller ungauged stream systems are likely to peak today/Saturday, and fall into early next
week. Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts for this region can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
