Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: Flood Warning – Terrace area, Kitimat-Kemano (Upgraded)
Flood Watch – Skeena, North Coast, Central Coast, North Vancouver Island (Maintained)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Lillooet River, Lower Mainland, Vancouver Island
(West, East, South) (Maintained)
Issued: 3:45 PM October 23, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is upgrading to a Flood Warning for:

   •   Rivers/tributaries to the Skeena River around Terrace

   •   Kitimat River and Kemano River including tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a Flood Watch for:

   •   North Coast including rivers and tributaries around New Aiyansh-Nass River and Prince
       Rupert

   •   Central Coast including the Kingcome River and Wannock River (Wuikinuxv)

   •   North Vancouver Island

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and surrounding areas

   •   Lillooet River near Pemberton and tributaries

   •   Lower Mainland including the North Shore Mountains, Metro Vancouver and tributaries
       around the Fraser Valley

   •   Vancouver Island – West, East and South

Weather Synopsis:

A storm system is currently impacting coastal British Columbia. Rainfall began late Wednesday
and has continued into Thursday, starting on the North Coast. On Thursday the system is sliding
south, with rain for the Central Coast, South Coast, and Vancouver Island extending into Friday.
Event precipitation totals so far are in the 80-100+ range for the North Coast, with particularly
high totals centered around the Terrace and Kitimat areas. Vancouver Island has also already
received significant rainfall, with totals ranging from 60-100+mm on the western side of the
island and 20-40+mm on the east. The Central and South coast have not yet received significant
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

precipitation related to this event, but precipitation rates are expected to increase in these
regions as the storm moves south Thursday into Friday. Rainfall amounts forecast through
Friday for these regions are in the 60-120+mm range for the Central Coast, 50-130+mm on the
South Coast and Lower Mainland, and 40-60 mm around Pemberton.

Temperatures are not anticipated to rise significantly or for extended periods during this event.
Precipitation as snow is possible over higher terrain, and significant snowmelt from rain-on-
snow is not anticipated.

River Conditions:

Rivers are rising rapidly in response to heavy rainfall. Some smaller tributaries on the North
Coast appear to have peaked; however, flows in larger rivers continue to rise.

In the Terrace area, at present there are no specific flood concerns for the Skeena River or the
Kitsumkalum River. As of 2:00 PM local time, both rivers were below a 1-year return period
flow. However, weather stations near Terrace, particularly to the south of the city, have
recorded very high precipitation totals (100+mm at Terrace). Smaller streams in the area, many
of which are ungauged, may have significant flow responses.

As of 2:00 PM local time, the Kitimat River was flowing at a 2-year return period flow and rising
rapidly, with flows in two of its major tributaries (Little Wedeene River and Hirsch Creek) also
increasing.

Further south, on the Central and South coasts including Vancouver Island, flows may reach or
exceed 2- to 5-year flows.

Heavy rain and high streamflow bring increased risk for unstable banks, river erosion,
submerged roads, swift water hazards, flooding and landslides. Stay clear of the banks of swift
running rivers and never drive across flooded roads, bridges or river crossings. At this time of
year leaves can clog storm drains and impact urban drainage. Keep storm drains clear.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
