Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Prince George and Mackenzie Tributaries (NEW) –
Cariboo (NEW)
High Streamflow Advisory - San Jose River (MAINTAINED)
Updated: 11:30 AM April 29, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Tributaries around Prince George and Mackenzie, including areas around Bear Lake,
         Aleza Lake, Giscome, the Cottonwood River, Chilako River, Salmon River, Willow River,
         Pack River and surrounding areas

    •    Cariboo region including tributaries around Quesnel and Williams Lake

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    San Jose River

A combination of warmer overnight temperatures and rainfall through areas around Prince
George, Mackenzie, Quesnel and Williams have led to increased snowmelt rates and increasing
flows over the past day. Additional precipitation is expected through Thursday and into Friday,
with continued warm overnight low temperatures. Rivers through the region are expected to
see rises on Thursday and into Friday and may continue into the weekend with on-going
snowmelt. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-
year range, or higher, for most of the gauged rivers in the region.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
