Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast and Vancouver Island
ISSUED: 2:00 PM November 23, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing or maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory:

   •   North Coast including areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley Bay, Kemano and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Central Coast including areas around Bella Coola, Wuikinuxv, Kingcome and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Northern Vancouver Island

   •   Central Vancouver Island

   •   Western Vancouver Island

   •   Eastern Vancouver Island

   •   Southern Vancouver Island

A prolonged period of active weather is expected throughout coastal BC over the coming week
as several atmospheric rivers pass over the region. The first of these is expected to make
landfall later on Wednesday, starting on the North Coast and Central Coast, and sliding
southward into Thursday. This storm is expected to bring heavy rainfall, with rainfall totals in
the 100-200mm range expected in exposed and upslope areas on the Central Coast and North
Coast, 150-200mm on Western Vancouver Island, and lower amounts for inland areas and
sheltered slopes on the lee (eastern) side of Vancouver Island.

Subsequent atmospheric river events are forecast on the weekend, starting up again later on
Saturday. Additional storms are expected early next week. There is still considerable
uncertainty over the locations and severity rainfall of the weekend and next week storm cycles,
however the pattern of extremely active weather and heavy rainfall is expected throughout the
advisory region.

Rivers are expected to see rises on Thursday in response to rainfall, with the potential for
moderate flows (2-year to 5-year) in areas. A more prolonged period of high flows is expected
over the weekend and into next week. These systems have the potential for significant rainfall
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
and flood risk throughout the region over the weekend and into next week, with additional
risks from the cumulative impacts of successive storms and additional warming and snowmelt
that is expected to occur.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
