Ministry of Forests

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Fraser River (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 3:45 PM May 23, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for the:

   •       Fraser River including areas upstream (Lheidli T'enneh, Prince George), through the
           Fraser Canyon, Nlaka’pamux, Hope, Sto:lo and Fraser Valley

Weather Synopsis:

Temperatures have eased following an extended period of seasonally hot weather last week.
Rainfall in the upper headwaters of the Fraser River has been underway since yesterday.
Environment and Climate Change Canada has a special weather statement in effect in areas of
the Upper Fraser, Cariboo Mountains, North Thompson River and South Thompson Rivers,
indicating the potential for 30-50 mm of precipitation today.

River Conditions:

Flows along the mainstem of the Fraser River (downstream of Quesnel) reached peak levels
over the weekend as the river responded to accelerated snowmelt last week. Current rainfall is
anticipated to travel down through the headwater tributaries of the Fraser River, leading to a
period of rising flows along the lower reaches (including the Fraser Canyon and downstream
through the Fraser Valley) through Friday of this week (May 26th). Flows in the lower Fraser
River (Sto:lo) are anticipated to reach 8100 to 9700 m3/s at the Fraser River at Hope (Water
Survey of Canada gauge 08MF005) and 5.23 m at the Mission gauge (08MH024) over Thursday
and Friday (May 26-27th). River levels should ease over the weekend and into next week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
Ministry of Forests

get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
