Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast
ISSUED: 1:30PM September 20, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding
         areas

        Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries

A strong fall storm is approaching the North Coast today. The system will stall over the North
Coast and move to the Central Coast tonight. The heaviest rain is forecast to occur Monday
evening. Environment and Climate Change Canada issued a rainfall warning for the North Coast
with 70 to 90 mm of rain predicted for Kitimat and 40 to 60 mm for Terrace. At higher
elevations, the 2‐day precipitation total could reach 150 mm or higher.

Rivers and creeks on the North Coast are expected to rise suddenly from the heavy rainfall.
Smaller watersheds at lower elevations will likely reach peak flows on Tuesday. Larger systems
may not peak until Wednesday or later from this storm. The Central Coast is not under a rainfall
warning and rivers are not expected to rise as quickly as the North Coast.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
