Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – BC Interior
Issued: 3:00 PM June 11, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the BC Interior including:

   •   Stikine River and tributaries

   •   Skeena-Nass Rivers and tributaries

   •   Omineca Region including areas around Germansen Landing, Mackenzie and
       surrounding areas

   •   Northern Rocky Mountains

   •   Peace Region including areas around Hudson’s Hope, Chetwynd, Tumbler Ridge, Dawson
       Creek, Fort St. John and surrounding areas

   •   Upper Fraser River and tributaries

   •   Upper Columbia River and tributaries

   •   West Kootenay

Weather Synopsis:

A high-pressure ridge that has dominated the provincial weather pattern over the past several
days is expected to weaken on Wednesday. From Thursday through Sunday, low-pressure off
Alaska and BC coast is expected to lead to wrap-around rainfall across the BC interior. Weather
modelling is consistent with the weather pattern, however, there remains uncertainty over the
amounts of rainfall that is expected over the Thursday to Sunday period. High-end scenarios are
indicating the potential for localized rainfall amounts reaching or exceeding the 80-120mm
range, with enhancement of rainfall anticipated in upslope areas (e.g. east-facing slopes in
mountainous terrain). Current weather forecasts have the heaviest rainfall focused on the
Peace region, with a band of moderate to heavy rainfall extending from Tumbler Ridge and
Hudson Hope northwest across the Rocky Mountains, into the Omineca Mountains (including
areas around Mackenzie and Germansen Landing) and into the Skeena, Nass and Stikine
headwaters. Adjacent areas, including the Upper Fraser and Upper Columbia, may also
experience moderate to heavy rainfall.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Thursday and Friday in response to rainfall, with high
flows potentially extending through to Sunday. Areas with high elevation snowpacks remaining,
in particular the Upper Fraser and Upper Columbia, are entering into this window of time with
high flows due to the recent hot weather and elevated snowmelt rates. Rivers with flows that
are already bolstered by snowmelt may experience amplified flow responses to the upcoming
rainfall, even outside of the areas receiving the highest rainfall totals.

Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the possibility of flows reaching or exceeding the 5-
year to 20-year return period range in areas receiving the highest rainfall totals. Uncertainty
remains high for rainfall amounts from now through the weekend. If rainfall amounts reach the
high-end scenario of current weather modelling, then flows in the 5- to 20-year return period
range or potentially even higher may result.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
