Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

ENDED ‐ Flood Warning – Sumas River and Sumas Prairie
ENDED ‐ High Streamflow Advisory – Coquihalla, Chilliwack River, Lower Fraser
tributaries, South Coast
ISSUED: 1:30 PM December 3, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is ending a Flood Warning for:

      Sumas River including Sumas Prairie and surround area

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

      Coquihalla River

      Chilliwack River, and tributaries

      Lower Fraser Valley, including Kanaka Creek, areas near Haney, areas around Hope,
       and other tributaries

      Sea‐to‐Sky including areas around Squamish, Whistler and Pemberton

      Sunshine Coast

      Howe Sound

      North Shore Mountains

      Lower Mainland

Rivers in the South Coast are rapidly receding from the effects of the third in a series of
atmospheric rivers over the past week. Temperatures have lowered drastically and are
expected to be near or below freezing, especially in the mountainous headwaters of the rivers,
over the upcoming 7‐days. Upcoming precipitation is not expected to impact rivers and will
likely arrive as snow. Rivers are expected to continue receding to normal conditions for this
time of year. There are hints that wetter weather could return for the following weekend
(December 11‐12). South Coast river systems will remain vulnerable to atmospheric river events
for the upcoming months and into February.

The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Warning for Sumas River and Sumas Prairie based
on the upcoming colder weather forecast and continued recession of the river level. Please
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
refer to the City of Abbotsford ‐ https://www.abbotsford.ca/flooding‐alert ‐ for information on
current evacuation alerts and orders related to the areas still affected by flooding.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
