Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Chilcotin
Issued: 5:00 PM June 18, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Chilcotin Region including the Chilcotin River, Big Creek, Taseko River, and surrounding
           tributaries around Tatlayoko Lake, Chilko Lake, Taseko Lakes and Tŝilhqot’in territory


Weather Synopsis:

A cold upper-low system is expected to pass across British Columbia over the coming days. This
is expected to bring moderate to heavy rainfall into the Chilcotin Region. Upslope conditions
are possible on east and north-east facing slopes, with rainfall amounts up to 50 mm possible
on Monday. Snow is possible over higher terrain.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise on Monday in response to rainfall. High flows are possible through
the region and will depend on the overall amount of rain that falls.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
