Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Peace Region
ISSUED: 13:00 PM June 1, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the South Peace region,
including:

   •   Sukunka River

   •   Murray River

   •   Parsnip River

Recent warm weather is forecast to result in a pulse of snowmelt from higher elevation
watersheds that still have significant remaining snowpack, predominantly in the southern part
of the Peace region. Flow are expected to rise beginning Wednesday, June 2 and remain high
into the weekend.

   •   Sukunka River near the Mouth (07FB003): Currently flowing at 459.5 m3/s (1-2 year return
       period), and forecast to rise to between a 2-5 year return period from Wednesday June 2 – June
       7.

   •   Murray River above Wolverine River (07FB006): Currently flowing at 341 m3/s (near a 2 year
       return period) and forecast to rise above a 2 year return period Wednesday into the weekend
       (June 2- June 5)

Currently, flows are not expected to reach extremely high levels, but flows as high as 2-year to
5-year return periods makes the region especially vulnerable to heavy rainfall. Rain is forecast
early next week for much of the region as a coastal storm system travels east across the
province.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
