Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory - South Coast, Western Vancouver Island
Issued: 2:30 PM November 8, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, Lower
       Mainland, and Fraser Valley

   •   Western Vancouver Island including areas around Bamfield, Ucluelet, Tofino, Tahsis,
       Zeballos, and other coastal communities


Weather Synopsis:

Starting on Friday, November 8, the South Coast will be the focal point of storm systems
continuing over at least the next several days. The prolonged wet pattern is expected to be
punctuated by two main precipitation events: the first Sunday to Monday, and the second
Tuesday to Wednesday. Although there is some divergence among weather models as to specific
amounts, the models have broad agreement that precipitation totals will be moderate to heavy
for each storm. For the week as a whole, cumulative precipitation will likely be substantial.

River Conditions:

As the storms arrive, rivers across the South Coast and Vancouver Island are generally at near-
normal seasonal levels. During the upcoming event, rivers are expected to be at heightened
vulnerability to rapid flow increases due to the wetter weather conditions of preceding weeks,
as well as the long duration of the storms. However, cooler temperatures accompanying the
storms may generate snow rather than rain at mid and high elevations, which could keep runoff
and flow responses relatively subdued despite heavier precipitation totals.

Although current hydrological models suggest that Vancouver Island rivers may be relatively less
responsive to the upcoming storms compared to rivers on the mainland, the west coast of the
island is expected to receive substantial precipitation, and rivers in the region are considered
particularly susceptible to high flows due to very heavy precipitation totals in the past month.



Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
