Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – BC Interior
Issued: 11:30 AM May 30, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing/maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory BC Interior
including tributary rivers in the:

   •   North Thompson (NEW)

   •   Upper Fraser – East (Prince George and upstream)

   •   Upper Columbia

   •   West Kootenay

Weather Synopsis:

A ridge of high-pressure system brought seasonally warm temperatures and elevated snowmelt
across much of the province earlier in the week. Temperatures eased yesterday and are
expected to increase across the Interior today as a short-lived high-pressure system passes.
Freezing levels today are forecast to extend up to 4000m over southern BC, with valley bottom
temperatures reaching in the mid-to upper 20’s °C through Kamloops, Clearwater, Revelstoke,
and Golden. On Saturday, more organized showers and rain are expected across the Interior,
with forecasts of 5-30 mm of rainfall possible in areas. Current weather forecasting is indicating
the highest rainfall amounts falling into the Cariboo Mountains, Rocky Mountains and Columbia
Ranges, including the North Thomspon, Upper Fraser, and Upper Columbia.

River Conditions:

Rivers across the region have risen sharply over the past few days due to warmer temperatures
and increased snowmelt runoff. Rivers are expected to remain high into the weekend, with the
potential for additional rises in rivers on Saturday and Sunday in response to additional runoff
from rainfall and snowmelt. Areas of particular concern include tributaries of the Fraser River
upstream of Prince George, North Thompson, Upper Columbia, and West Kootenay. Flows are
forecasted to potentially reach 2-year to 5-year return periods, with localized areas of higher
flows possible, particularly in smaller watersheds with high-elevation snow and areas that
receive higher amounts of rainfall. High flows are anticipated today through Sunday.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
