Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia, West Kootenay, East Kootenay, North
and Thompson tributaries, Okanagan, Boundary
Issued: 11:45 AM May 15, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for areas of the Interior
including:

   •   Upper Columbia including tributaries around Revelstoke, Golden and surrounding areas

   •   West Kootenay including tributaries around Trout Lake, Lardeau River, Kaslo, Nakusp,
       Edgewood, Fauquier, and surrounding areas

   •   East Kootenay including tributaries around Radium, Invermere and surrounding areas

   •   Tributaries to the North and South Thompson Rivers, including areas around Clearwater,
       Blue River, Malakwa, Sicamous and surrounding areas

   •   North Okanagan including tributaries around Vernon and surrounding areas

   •   Boundary including headwater tributaries on the Granby River and surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

The heaviest rainfall associated with low-pressure troughing over BC has largely passed.
Observed rainfall totals since Wednesday have been in the range of 15 to 45 mm. Additional
rain through Saturday is expected, however total amounts are expected to be light to
moderate. Temperatures have cooled, leading to easing snowmelt rates.

River Conditions:

Rivers have reached peak levels from recent rainfall. With easing rainfall rates, conditions are
expected to continue to remain stable through the weekend and into next week.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
