Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island, Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound
Issued: 2:45 PM October 16, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Vancouver Island

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Howe Sound

Weather Synopsis:

A series of Pacific storms is expected to impact coastal British Columbia over the early part of
this week. Moderate to heavy rainfall is expected on Tuesday and Wednesday. Model forecasts
the potential for 100-200 mm, or more, over this period in areas that receive the highest
amount of rain, and closer to half that amount (50-100 mm) in other areas. Currently this is
forecast to be in areas around west Vancouver Island from Tofino north to Gold River, however
this could shift. Lesser amounts are forecast in other areas. Temperatures are expected to
warm during this period, however there is limited snowpack available to add to runoff.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise in response to rainfall, with high flows expected across Vancouver
Island, Sunshine Coast and Howe Sound. Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the
potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year return period level. Current forecasting is suggesting
that flows are expected to be highest on West Vancouver Island, however this could shift if
higher than forecasted rainfall occurs in other areas.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. Be alert to road conditions, check DriveBC
for current conditions, and do not drive through flooded areas. For information on how to
prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
