Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast
ISSUED: 2:30PM September 29, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including watersheds around Prince Rupert, Kitimat and surrounding
       areas

   •   Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries

A series of strong fall storms is forecast for the Central and North Coast beginning today and
extending into the weekend. The first storm is already hitting the coast and will peak overnight
and into the morning hours of Thursday, September 30th. Up to 100 mm of rain over a three-
day period is forecast for areas including Kitimat, Prince Rupert, and Terrace, with more
possible at higher elevations. Less precipitation is expected for the Central Coast relative to the
North Coast. Seasonally cool to normal temperatures means that precipitation at higher
elevations will likely fall as snow. A second pulse of rain beginning Friday and lasting into the
weekend is forecast to be more significant than the Wednesday-Thursday storm

Rivers and creeks on the North Coast are expected to rise from the heavy rainfall beginning late
Wednesday and into Thursday. Certain larger rivers (such as the Skeena River at Usk, 08EF001),
are already flowing at relatively higher levels, reflecting precipitation that has already fallen
over the past week within the region. Given that two storms are forecast to impact the region
within close succession of each other, it is likely that systems will begin to rise late Wednesday
into Thursday and remain high into the weekend.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
