Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Northeast Region
Issued: 2:30 PM June 14, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the Northeast Region
including:

   •   Tributaries of Liard River

   •   Tributaries of Peace River

   •   Fort Nelson, Fort St. John, and Dawson Creek

Weather Synopsis:

A low-pressure system is expected to pass the Northeast region and bring moderate to heavy
rainfall to the Liard River, Peace River, and surrounding basins. The most intensive precipitation
is expected to start this evening into tomorrow noon (Saturday). The Environment and Climate
Change Canada (ECCC) meteorological model forecast indicates that a total rainfall amount up
to 87 mm is expected for this event with heavy local rainfall in short durations. The uncertainty
of the forecast rainfall centre, amount, and intensity is high at this moment. The precipitation is
expected to ease on Sunday.

River Conditions:

The current river levels are relatively low. The latest hydrological modeling indicates that rivers
especially the small stream systems are expected to rise significantly in response to the forecast
rainfall. The forecast high flows for the Halfway River are expected between the 2- to-5-year
return periods and to peak on Sunday. The response of some small tributaries of Liard River is
forecast to reach the 5- to 10-year return period levels tonight or tomorrow.

Current river levels are low in most areas; conditions are expected to be dynamic throughout
the weekend with periods of rapid river rises. Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life
safety.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety . Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
