Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

DOWNGRADED: High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast
ENDED: Flood Watch– Haida Gwaii
ISSUED: 3:00 PM November 22, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including areas around Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Hartley Bay, Kemano and
       surrounding areas

The River Forecast Centre is ending the Flood Watch and advisories for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

An atmospheric river that has impacted the area over the past two days has slid south out of
the region. Total rainfall amounts from the event were lower than expected, with amounts in
the 50-90mm range being observed in the heaviest rainfall areas around Prince Rupert. Rainfall
warnings from Environment and Climate Change Canada have now ended.

River levels remain high through the region, and in areas have not yet reached peak flows from
this storm. Additional rises are expected in larger rivers this afternoon. Flooding is possible in
low lying areas, but significant flooding is not expected at this time. Rivers are expected to ease
on Tuesday. An extended period of severe wet weather is expected, with additional storms
beginning later this week and extending into next week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
