Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Dean, Bella Coola
Issued: 9:30 AM May 14, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the:

   •       Dean River

   •       Bella Coola River and tributaries, including the Atnarko River and surrounding areas

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather. The highest
temperatures are expected from today through Tuesday. Daytime highs will be 10 to 15
degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees above what
is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last through the
week with temperatures in the upper-20’s °C.

River Conditions:

Streamflow in the Central Coast, Nuxalk Territory, and Tsilhqot’in Territory have been rising due
to snowmelt. Current flows at Dean River below Tanswanket Creek (Water Survey of Canada
gauge 08FC003) is flowing at approximately 102 m3/s (between a 2-year and 5-year flow). Flows
throughout the region are expected to continue rising through the next week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
