Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – East Okanagan and Boundary (DOWNGRADED)
High Streamflow Advisory – South Interior (MAINTAINED)
ISSUED: 13:00 PM June 5, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   East Okanagan including Mission Creek and tributaries east of Vernon, Kelowna,
       Penticton and surrounding areas

   •   West Kettle River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Spius Creek and Lower Nicola River downstream of Spius Creek

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Other areas of the Okanagan

   •   Boundary Region including the Kettle River, Boundary Creek, Granby River and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   Nicola River and upstream tributaries including the Coldwater River

   •   Similkameen River including the Tulameen River and surrounding tributaries

   •   Salmon River near Salmon Arm

A low-pressure system brought unsettled weather and repeated periods of moderate to heavy
rainfall across the South Interior region on Friday and into Saturday. The convective nature of
precipitation brought locally heavy precipitation, especially to areas around Merritt and into
the headwaters of the Nicola River, as well as showers more broadly across the region. Many
smaller and midsized watersheds peaked yesterday in response to the locally-heavy
precipitation; peaks were near 1-2 year return periods, increasing to ~5-10 year return periods
for smaller systems near Merritt. Current rainfall forecasts through the region indicate the
potential for further precipitation; however, the totally rainfall amounts are (at this time) less
than forecast for the Friday-Saturday period. Precipitation can be difficult to forecast with
precision at the watershed scale, with the potential that specific watersheds could see larger
downpours (especially if rain falls due to convective storms). Broadly speaking, hydrologic
forecasts through the region for the next few days indicate steady or falling streamflow levels,
Ministry of Forests

with the provision that smaller systems could see a larger response than forecast due to local
convective precipitation that is difficult to forecast. This High Streamflow Advisory reflects this
broad uncertainty, and potential that systems could respond to local storms (though significant
rises are not at this time forecast). Weather radar provides the most accurate means of
monitoring the location and potential severity of storms as they move across the region.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
