Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory - Central Coast, South Coast, North and West Vancouver Island
Issued: 1:15 PM December 6, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Coast including Bella Coola, Kingcome and surrounding areas

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky, North Shore Mountains,
       Metro Vancouver, and Fraser Valley

   •   North and West Vancouver Island



Weather Synopsis:

A warmer, moisture-laden low pressure system is arriving on the BC coast today (Friday). The
system is expected to bring widespread precipitation to the province, but the primary focus will
likely be the Central/South coasts. Precipitation totals are forecast to be moderate to heavy.
Unseasonably high freezing levels accompanying the storm may cause a sizeable proportion of
precipitation to fall as rain or freezing rain rather than snow.

The storm is expected to be short-lived, with precipitation beginning to taper off by Saturday,
and a colder and drier high pressure ridge building over the province on Sunday.
River Conditions:

Rivers are anticipated to rise in response to rainfall and snowmelt. Peak flows are generally
anticipated December 6-7 (Friday-Saturday) for the Central Coast and northernmost Vancouver
Island, and December 7-8 (Saturday-Sunday) for the South Coast and the majority of Vancouver
Island. Currently, hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for peak flows up to the 2-year
to 5-year return period range.

Going into the storm, rivers across the Central/South Coast and Vancouver Island are generally
at near-normal seasonal levels. Several weeks into the accumulation season, mid- to high
elevation snowpack is well-established and expected to be fairly resistant to melt despite the
potentially elevated freezing levels driven by the upcoming storm. The combination of drier
antecedent conditions and likely stable snowpack - as well as the relatively short duration of the
storm - are expected to be mitigatory for flood hazard. However, high flows and localized flooding
are possible, particularly at lower elevations and in areas with poor drainage.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
