Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast, Northern Interior
ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Bulkley, Skeena
Issued: 11:30 AM May 11, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •   Central Coast including the Atnarko River, Bella Coola River and surrounding tributaries

    •   Lakes Region and tributary rivers around Burns Lake, Fraser Lake, Fort St. James and
        surrounding areas

    •   Omineca including tributaries between Prince George and Mackenzie

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •   Bulkley River and tributaries around Smithers and Houston

    •   Skeena River and tributaries around Terrace and Kitsumkalum

Weather Synopsis:

An extended period of high pressure over the last week brought seasonally hot temperatures
across British Columbia. Cooler temperatures over the weekend are now transitioning back to
warmer temperatures for the early part of this week. Later in the week low pressure is
expected to develop, with a transition to seasonal or below seasonal temperatures and some
rainfall.

River Conditions:

Rivers in the Bulkley and Skeena watershed have experienced stable and declining river levels.
This trend is expected to continue for the coming days. In lake-driven watersheds through the
region, including the Stellako River, Nautley River, Stuart River and others, flows continue to
slowly rise towards 2-year flow rates or higher. Continued rises are expected into mid-week. In
the Central Coast, flows on the Dean River and Atnarko River remain near 2-year flow rates,
with the potential for rises through the week with rainfall on top of seasonally high flows.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that
flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
