Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

ENDED - High Streamflow Advisory – Northern Interior
Issued: 8:45 AM May 15, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Lakes Region and tributary rivers around Burns Lake, Fraser Lake, Fort St. James and
         surrounding areas

    •    Omineca including tributaries between Prince George and Mackenzie

Weather Synopsis:

Temperatures have cooled over the past couple of days, leading to easing snowmelt rates. This
pattern is expected to continue into next week. Showers are possible over the coming days.

River Conditions:

Rivers through the region have generally reached near peak levels, with either stable or
receding conditions. In areas with continued rises, such as the Stuart River, conditions remain
below 2-year flows. With cooler and showery weather, continued stabilization in river levels is
expected, with limited additional rises.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
