Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast and Northern Vancouver Island
Issued: 11:45 AM March 6, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Central Coast

   •   Vancouver Island North

Weather Synopsis:

Coastal storms are expected to impact coastal British Columbia from Friday through Saturday.
Rain will begin today and become heavy at times tonight through Saturday as a series of frontal
systems move onshore. Coastal rainfall totals of 100-150 mm are anticipated, with more inland
areas receiving near 50-75 mm by Saturday evening before the rain eases to showers.
Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Yellow Warning for rainfall for the
Central Coast. Freezing levels are expected to rise to around 1500 to 1600 m. Additional runoff
from snowmelt may occur in areas with snow on the ground.

River Conditions:

Localized water pooling and high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-
snow melt runoff across the region. Rivers are expected to rise starting Friday, with peak levels
occurring Saturday or into Sunday morning. Forecast flows may reach the 2-year to 5-year
return period range or higher with heavy amounts of precipitation. Potential impacts include
swift-water hazards, river erosion, road washouts, and landslides. Localized water pooling may
develop in low-lying or poorly drained areas receiving heavy rainfall, particularly where snow or
ice creates blockages.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for driving conditions and
potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never through flood waters
or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
