Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Central Coast, Vancouver Island, South Coast
Issued: 3:00pm October 27, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •   Central Coast including Bella Coola River and tributaries, Kingcome River,
        Owikeno/Rivers Inlet and surrounding areas

    •   Vancouver Island

    •   Lower Mainland, including Metro Vancouver, North Shore Mountains, Fraser Valley
        tributaries.

    •   Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound and Sea-to-Sky including the Lillooet River

A major weather pattern change occurred last weekend, switching from extended, extremely
dry weather to ongoing storm systems along coastal B.C. Recent storms resulted in relatively
light to moderate precipitation totals with cooler temperatures; river responses have thus far
been subdued. Automated Snow Weather Stations in the mountains have accumulated 20 to 70
mm of snow water equivalent so far this week.

This stormy pattern continues through the weekend. Rainfall for Thursday and Friday is unlikely
to cause major impacts to rivers and creeks. However, a stronger system from Saturday evening
through Sunday has the potential to significantly increase flows for the Central Coast,
Vancouver Island and South Coast. Forecasted two-day precipitation totals for Saturday/Sunday
on the Central Coast range from 80 to 140 mm, 100 to 200 mm for West Vancouver Island, 20-
60 mm for East Vancouver Island, and 60-100 mm for the Lower Mainland, with higher totals
possible. Temperatures may be warm enough during this storm to be a rain-on-snow event,
adding additional water into rivers from snowmelt. Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on the
weekend and peak between Sunday or Monday, depending on rainfall timing and watershed
size.

Conditions are expected to be relatively cooler and drier after the weekend storm, with
freezing levels dropping to 1,000 m or lower. The outlook in the long-range shows the potential
for a strong atmospheric river for the following weekend (November 4-6). The Canadian Global
Ministry of Forests

weather model is currently predicting very large rainfall totals for this event; however, there is
still a large amount of uncertainty for this event this far in advance.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
