Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena, Morice and Bulkley Rivers
Issued: 12:00 PM June 26, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •   Skeena River and tributaries (including the Zymoetz, and Kitsumkalum Rivers)

    •   Bulkley River and tributaries (including the Telkwa River)

    •   Morice River and tributaries

Much of BC is currently under heat warnings related to a historic heat event that has daytimes
highs exceeding 40°C in parts of the central interior. Forecasted temperatures for Terrace
indicate the potential for daytime highs to reach the high 30’s beginning Sunday, June 27th and
extending into early next week (June 29th, 2021). The combination of intense heat, little
nighttime temperature recovery, and long days (with extensive solar radiation) will result in a
very significant snowmelt event for watersheds with remaining winter snowpack, as well as
those with permanent snow and glaciers. Current hydrologic forecasts indicate the potential for
streamflow increases within such watersheds (i.e., those with snow to melt). CLEVER output for
this morning (Saturday, July 26th) indicates:

    -   The Skeena River at Usk (08EF001) is currently running at 3600m3/s (1-2 year return
        period flow), and is forecast to rise to its 2 year return period into mid to late next week
        (June 30th-July 1st, 2021)

    -   The Morice River near Houston (08ED002) is currently running at 289.5 m3/s (a 2-5 year
        return period flow) and is forecast to rise to a 5-10 year return period flow over the
        forecast period.

Please refer to the CLEVER forecast page (http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html)
for details.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
