Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Haida Gwaii, Vancouver Island, South Coast
Issued: 12:00 PM January 28, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Haida Gwaii

   •   Vancouver Island

   •   South Coast

Weather Synopsis:

A series of storms is anticipated to impact coastal British Columbia over the next several days.
Prolonged periods of moderate to heavy rain are possible, with three-day rainfall amounts of 60
to 200+mm forecasted, with the highest rainfall amounts expected over West Vancouver Island
and higher terrain over Howe Sounds and the North Shore Mountains. Temperatures are
expected to remain seasonally warm, with freezing levels rising to 1500 to 2000 m. Additional
runoff from snowmelt is expected in areas with snow on the ground.

River Conditions:

Localized high flows are expected due to heavy rainfall rates and rain-on-snow melt runoff
throughout the coastal region. High flows are expected in episodes throughout Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday, with the potential for both periods of increasing and decreasing flows
throughout the period. Heightened awareness of potential high flows is prudent throughout
this period. In lake-fed river systems, such as the Cowichan River and Somass River, peak flows
are expected later (Friday into Saturday) due to the cumulative impact of rainfall. Current
modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-year range.

Stay safe in and around rivers through the region. Be prepared for driving conditions and
potential road washouts and check local conditions on DriveBC.ca. Never through flood waters
or across road washouts.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
