Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Nass, Stikine, Liard
Issued: 9:30 AM May 16, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Nass River

   •       Stikine River and tributaries around Telegraph Creek, Dease Lake and Tahltan Territory

   •       Liard River and tributaries

   •       Northwest B.C. including tributaries in the northern Cassiar Mountains

Weather Synopsis:

Seasonally hot temperatures in the region experienced since the weekend are expected to
persist. Cooling and potential rainfall is forecast for later in the week (Friday May 19th)

River Conditions:

River levels have been rising throughout the region in response to accelerated snowmelt rates
over the past few days. Rivers are expected to continue to rise, with most rivers in the region
anticipated to reach 2-year to 5-year flows over the next few days (May 16-18) and in areas
may reach up to 10-year flows by Friday or over the weekend (May 19-21).

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
