Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast
ISSUED: 10:45 AM December 9, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains and
         Fraser Valley

A frontal system is expected to sweep across coastal British Columbia over the next few days.
Moderate to heavy rainfall is expected across the South Coast on Friday and into Saturday.
Temperatures are expected to rise, with freezing levels approaching 1000-1500m. Rain-on-
snow and snowmelt runoff is expected to be limited to low and mid-elevations, with snow
expected over higher terrain.

Rivers are expected to experience rises on Friday and into Saturday. Moderate flows are
possible (approaching a 2-year to 5-year return period flow). Snowmelt runoff at lower
elevations may lead to minor flooding in low-lying areas. Risks of high flows and overbank spill
on the Nooksack River into the Sumas River are low; forecasts for the Nooksack River are
available from the NOAA’s Northwest River Forecast Centre (https://www.nwrfc.noaa.gov/rfc/).

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
