Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena, Stikine, and Liard
ISSUED: 11:00 AM June 1, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Skeena River including the Bulkley River and surrounding tributaries around Telkwa,
         Smithers, Hazelton, Kispiox, and Terrace

    •    Tributaries of the Stikine River, including streams and rivers around Dease Lake and
         Telegraph Creek

    •    Liard River including tributaries around Fort Nelson and Highway 97 towards Watson
         Lake

Steady warming this week is leading to increasing snowmelt rates and river runoff.
Temperatures are expected to reach the low-20C range for valley bottom locations on
Wednesday. On Thursday and into the weekend, the region is expected to experience more
unsettled weather, with the potential for rainfall to add to river runoff.

Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for a period of high flows through the
region into the weekend. These forecasts include high-end estimates that there is a risk that
flood conditions emerge over the weekend. There is still uncertainty over the weather and river
responses into the weekend, and this advisory will be upgraded if required.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
