Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory - South Coast, Western Vancouver Island, Kingcome (MAINTAINED)
Issued: 11:30 AM November 12, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, North Shore Mountains, Lower
         Mainland, and Fraser Valley

    •    Western Vancouver Island including areas around Bamfield, Ucluelet, Tofino, Tahsis,
         Zeballos, and other coastal communities

    •    Kingcome River


Weather Synopsis:

On-going weather systems are impacting coastal British Columbia. The next round of rainfall is
forecast to begin on Tuesday and continue overnight into Wednesday. Heavy rain is expected in
areas, including West Vancouver Island, Howe Sound and Metro Vancouver.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to rise later on Tuesday and into Wednesday. Current hydrologic modelling
is indicating the potential for streamflow reaching 2-year to 5-year return period levels in areas
with the heaviest rainfall. Minor flooding is possible in low-lying areas, and higher flows are
possible if precipitation is higher than forecasted.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.
For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
