Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson, Thompson River (MAINTAINED)
High Streamflow Advisory - North Thompson (ENDED)
ISSUED: 11:00 AM July 12, 2022
The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Thompson River (including Shuswap Lake)

   •   Thompson River from Kamloops to Spences Bridge

The River Forecast Centre is ending a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Thompson River including tributaries around Barriere, Clearwater and Blue
       River

Rivers through the Thompson system have remained high due delayed seasonal snowmelt as
well as significant precipitation through June and July. However, rivers through the region have
begun to recede, reflecting the depletion of snowpack as well as limited precipitation through
the region. Specifically, flows in the North Thompson River have now dropped to 1620 m3/s
(below a 2 year return period), and is forecast to recede. The South Thompson River has fallen
but is currently at 1180 m3/s (near a 5 year return period) and is forecast to recede; the
continued High Streamflow Advisory reflects that flows are currently high as precipitation and
snowmelt flows through the system. Similarly, flows downstream at Thompson River at Spences
Bridge have dropped but remain at 2870 m3/s (between a 2-5 year return period flow); thus a
High Streamflow Advisory remains in effect. Current weather models predict drier conditions
for the upcoming week and water levels are expected to continue the downward trend. Since
water levels are relatively high for this time of year, the river and lake systems are still
vulnerable to any potential widespread heavy rainfall event in the upcoming weeks. Smaller
creek systems are highly vulnerable to short-duration and high intensity rain from convective
thunderstorm activity.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
