Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast, Vancouver Island, Fraser Valley (North),
Lillooet River near Pemberton (NEW)
Issued: 3:30PM September 29, 2025


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Lillooet River near Pemberton and nearby tributaries

The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   South Coast including Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky, North Shore Mountains,
       Metro Vancouver

   •   Fraser Valley (North)

   •   Vancouver Island

Weather Synopsis:

Two strong storm events impacted Vancouver Island and the South Coast over the weekend.
The first storm, arrived late Thursday and lasted through Saturday, measured the highest
precipitation totals on western Vancouver Island with stations ranging from 50 to 145 mm.
Precipitation stations on the South Coast ranged from 20 to 65 mm for the event. The second
storm arrived Sunday and is still impacting areas of the Lower Mainland. Precipitation totals for
this event range from 40 to 140 mm on west Vancouver Island and 10 to 90 mm for the South
Coast. Another storm system is forecast to arrive on Vancouver Island Tuesday evening and will
impact the region and the South Coast into Thursday. An additional 40 to 100 mm of
precipitation is likely from the upcoming event.

River Conditions:

In general, most river responses on Vancouver Island and the South Coast were subdued for the
two weekend storm events due to prolonged dry conditions, unsaturated soils and lower than
normal river levels leading up to the events. The Southgate River above Elliot Creek (08GD010)
has reached 929 m3/s as of 10:10 PST on Monday. It represents a 50-year return period,
however the station only has three complete years of data to create a return period analysis, so
it’s likely an over-estimation. The only other stations to reach above a 2-year flows were the
Elaho River near the Mouth (08GA071) which is currently at 803 m3/s at 10:45am PST, and the
Homathko River at the Mouth (08GD004) which peaked at 1,330 m3/s at 8:45am PST.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

As of 1:35pm PST, the Lillooet River near Pemberton (08MG005) reached 640 m3/s (between 2-
year and 5-year flow).

With the upcoming third storm system arriving this week, rivers could respond more rapidly
due to higher antecedent flow conditions and more saturated soils. Vancouver Island rivers are
likely to experience peak flows Wednesday through Thursday, whereas rivers on the South
Coast will likely be slightly later on Thursday.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
