Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Kootenay
ISSUED: 1:00 PM June 11, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   West Kootenay

   •   East Kootenay

Rising snowmelt rates and unsettled and showery weather has been leading to rising river
levels throughout the region. A number of rivers through the region are currently at or
approaching 2-year return period flows, particularly in the East Kootenay. This includes the Elk
River near Fernie (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08NK002), Bull River near Gardner
(08NG002), and Kootenay River at Fort Steele (08NG065), and tributaries in the West Kootenay
around Nelson.

On Saturday and Sunday, on-going snowmelt and convective precipitation (local amounts of 5-
25 mm) is expected to keep rivers high with additional modest increases in river flows. A period
of wet weather, with moderate to heavy rainfall, is forecast to impact the region on Monday
into Tuesday, with 20-30mm of rainfall expected over most areas, 30-50mm over areas of the
East Kootenay including the Elk River valley, and potentially exceeding 60 mm over higher
terrain. This has the potential to lead to flood conditions, particularly for areas in the East
Kootenay, on Monday and Tuesday of next week. There remains uncertainty over the trajectory
of this weather system, and the heaviest rain may shift from where it is being currently forecast
in adjacent regions (currently the heaviest rainfall is forecasted into the eastern side of the
Rockies into Alberta).

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
