Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

Issued: High Streamflow Advisory – Quesnel River
13:00 PM June 29, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Quesnel River and its tributaries

Historically high temperatures occurring throughout the province has resulted in extensive melt
of snow and permanent ice at very high elevations. Daytime highs at Quesnel exceeded 40°C
over the weekend and are forecast to remain above 35°C until at least Thursday. Limited
monitoring capacity of the high elevation snowpack that remains at this time of year makes it
difficult to forecast how much snow is left to melt and the corresponding impact on rivers.
Current hydrologic forecasting indicates the potential for the Quesnel River at Likely (08KH001)
to rise to 10-year return period flows into this weekend (July 3-6, 2021); this site is already
running at 444.3 m3/s as of 6:00 AM this morning, a 2-5 year return period flow. The
downstream Quesnel River at Quesnel site (08KH006) is forecast to exceed 2-year return period
flows beginning this weekend and potentially lasting into early next week. As there is little
precipitation in the forecast for this region, the key element driving the certainty of this
forecast is how much snow is left to melt within the watershed, given the high temperatures
that are forecast to persist through this week.

Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
