Ministry of Forests

UPDATE - High Streamflow Advisory – Skeena Region
Issued: 11:30 AM May 14, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is maintaining a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       Skeena Region, including the Skeena River (NEW), Bulkley River and surrounding
           tributaries around Wet'suwet'en and Gitxsan Territories, Telkwa, Smithers, Hazelton,
           Kispiox, and Terrace

Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the
region, indicating that the B.C. Interior is experiencing unseasonably hot weather. The highest
temperatures are expected from today through Tuesday. Daytime highs will be 10 to 15
degrees Celsius above seasonal values while overnight lows will be 5 to 10 degrees above what
is normally experienced this time of year. Hot temperatures are forecasted to last through the
week with temperatures in the upper 20’s to 30°C.

River Conditions:

Hot temperatures are leading to accelerated snowmelt in the region. Streamflow in most areas
has begun to rise in response to increased snowmelt runoff. With hot temperatures expected
to persist through next week, on-going rises in river levels is expected. Current hydrologic
modelling is indicating the potential for flows in rivers in the region to reach or exceed 2-year
flows by Tuesday or Wednesday of next week (May 16a-17) and may reach higher levels later in
the week.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
Ministry of Forests

get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
