Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Cariboo
ISSUED: 15:30 PM June 4, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for the:

    •    Cariboo region, including the Quesnel River and Horsefly River

A high pressure weather system resulted in significantly above seasonal temperatures for much
of BC over the past week. This heat resulted in significant snowmelt of snow remaining within
high elevations in the Cariboo mountains. This pulse of snowmelt is mainly affecting larger
systems including the Quesnel and Horsefly Rivers:

    -    The Quesnel River near Quesnel (08KH006) is currently flowing at 796 m3/s, and is forecast to
         rise to between a 2-5 year return period over the weekend and into next week.

    -    The Horsefly River above Quesnel Lake (08KH031) is flowing at 164 m3/s, and is forecast to rise
         over the next two days to a 2 year return period before slowly falling.

Although the risk of significant flooding is low, systems that are high from snowmelt are
vulnerable to any significant rain that falls while they are high. Such significant rainfall is not
forecast for the upcoming weekend, but flows could be higher than forecast if more rain falls
than is within the current weather forecast.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
