Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Boundary, Kootenay (DOWNGRADED)
Issued: 7:00 AM May 8, 2023


The following advisories are currently in effect:

High Streamflow Advisory

   •       Boundary including the Kettle River, Granby River and surrounding tributaries
           (DOWNGRADED)

   •       West Kootenay (southern regions) (DOWNGRADED)

   •       East Kootenay (southern regions) (DOWNGRADED)

Weather Synopsis:

Unsettled weather with cooler temperatures are expected early in the week. A building ridge of
high pressure later in the week will bring seasonally high temperatures by next weekend.

River Conditions:

River levels have now reached their peak levels from last week’s snowmelt and rainfall over

the weekend. Rivers are expected to recede into the middle of the week. Additional rises in

rivers is expected into next weekend due to increases in higher elevation snowmelt.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning

During a High Streamflow Advisory, conditions can change quickly. Understand the risks and
get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
