Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – North Coast, Central Coast, North and West Vancouver Island
Issued: 11:00 AM November 1, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Coast including tributaries around Terrace, Kitimat, Ging̱olx, Lax̱g̱altsʼap,
       Gitlax̱t'aamiks (New Aiyansh), Prince Rupert, and other coastal communities

   •   Central Coast including Bella Bella, Bella Coola, Kingcome River, Owikeeno River and
       surrounding tributaries

   •   North Vancouver Island including rivers around Port Alice, Port Hardy and surrounding
       areas

   •   West Vancouver Island including rivers around Gold River, Zeballos and surrounding
       areas

Weather Synopsis:

Progressive weather systems are forecast to impact coastal British Columbia over the weekend
and next week. Current weather forecasting is indicating the potential for moderate to heavy
rainfall on Monday, particularly for areas stretching from the North Coast (Nass River) south
through Terrace, Prince Rupert, Kitimat, Bella Bella, Kingcome to Northern Vancouver Island.
There is still a high degree of uncertainty in the location and intensity of the heaviest rainfall,
however there is good weather model agreement of the overall pattern of rainfall and focus along
the BC coast.

River Conditions:

Rivers are anticipated to rise in response to rainfall, with the potential for high flows on Monday
(November 4). Current hydrologic modelling is indicating the potential for flows up to the 2-year
to 5-year flow range.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
