Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Vancouver Island, South Coast, Lower Mainland
Issued: 11:30 AM December 22, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   Vancouver Island

   •   South Coast including Howe Sound, Sunshine Coast and surrounding tributaries

   •   Lower Mainland including the North Shore Mountains, Fraser Valley and surrounding
       tributaries

A significant shift in weather is anticipated over the coming days for coastal areas of British
Columbia. Cold air is currently entrenched across the region. Warmer and wetter weather is
anticipated, starting later Thursday and persisting into the weekend and into next week. The
onset of the change will lead to a period of transition from snow to freezing rain and finally
rainfall. The timing of this transition may vary by region, however in general will begin late-
Thursday and see low elevations experiencing this transition through Friday, and potentially
later for more inland areas (including the eastern Fraser Valley and the Sea-to-Sky corridor).
While there is abundant snow on the ground in low elevation areas, the snow water equivalent
is limited (estimated as 10-25 mm). This snow is expected to melt slowly through the Friday and
Saturday period. Along with rainfall, this may lead to drainage issues in low lying areas as well
as potential challenges associated with impacts from snow and ice on drainage infrastructure.

A more significant rainfall pattern is emerging for Saturday and again over the Sunday and
Monday period. This weekend and early next week the storm cycle is anticipated to have the
potential to bring high streamflow and potential flood hazard to the region. Rivers are
anticipated to respond to rainfall and rain-on-snow melt on Saturday, Sunday and Monday,
with the potential for high flows throughout the period. Current weather forecasting remains
uncertain on the amounts and locations of the heaviest rainfall; however modelling is in good
agreement to the overall pattern of a moderate to strong series of atmospheric rivers impacting
the west coast (from Oregon to BC) this weekend and into next week.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.
Ministry of Forests

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
