Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – South Peace and Upper Fraser
ISSUED: 5:30 PM August 22, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •       South Peace and Upper Fraser Regions, including tributaries around Dawson Creek,
           Chetwynd, Saulteau First Nations, West Moberly First Nations, Moberly Lake, Tumbler
           Ridge, and McBride


Weather Synopsis:

Environment and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for upcoming
moderate to heavy rainfall over the South Peace River region of B.C. Rain beginning Wednesday
into Thursday. Rainfall totals are forecast to be 60-80 mm, possibly higher in some scenarios.

Current weather modelling suggests that the heaviest rainfall will occur in the southeastern
portion of the Peace region, but the Upper Fraser region and surrounding areas may also
receive considerable rainfall amounts depending on the storm track.

River Conditions:

Rivers are expected to respond rapidly, with rising flows possible as early as Wednesday.

Although widespread high flows and/or flooding are not expected at this time, abrupt increases
in flows and water levels are expected, with the response highly dependent on the location,
duration, and magnitude of the incoming storm event.

Current wildfire activity may exacerbate localized runoff and substantially increase the risk of
debris flows in recently burned areas.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning
Ministry of Forests


Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC/floods.

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
