Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – Northern Interior
Issued: 11:30 AM May 4, 2026


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for areas of the Northern
Interior including:

   •   Bulkley River and tributaries around Smithers and Houston

   •   Lakes Region and tributary rivers around Burns Lake, Fraser Lake, Fort St. James and
       surrounding areas

   •   Omineca including tributaries between Prince George and Mackenzie

Weather Synopsis:

An extended period of high pressure is bringing seasonally hot temperatures across British
Columbia. Daily maximum temperatures through the northern interior are expected to remain
in the low-to-mid 20°C through Wednesday to Thursday. Overnight low temperatures are
expected to remain above freezing. Snowmelt rates observed at Automated Snow Weather
Stations in the region have been in the 15 to 30 mm range over the past few days and are
expected to accelerate and remain elevated through mid-week.

River Conditions:

Rivers have been rising in response to hot temperatures and snowmelt. Several rivers at Water
Survey of Canada real-time monitoring locations are currently flowing near or at a mean annual
peak flow level (i.e. 2-year flow), including Buck Creek at the mouth (08EE013), Bulkley River
near Houston (08EE003), and Pack River at the outlet of McLeod Lake (07EE010). Rises in river
throughout the region are forecast to reach the 2-year to 5-year flow, or higher, through
Wednesday to Thursday this week. Low-lying flooding and bank erosion are possible at these
levels.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to safety. Stay away from rivers and river banks, which
can be unstable. Never drive through floodwaters, as unseen hazards and current can be life-
threatening.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
