Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Vancouver Island
ISSED: 11:00AM October 14, 2021


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

   •   North Shore Mountains

   •   Metro Vancouver

   •   Fraser Valley – North

   •   Fraser Valley – South

   •   Howe Sound

   •   Sunshine Coast

   •   Vancouver Island

A moderate atmospheric river event is expected to impact the region starting Friday, bringing
an extended period of rainfall across south-west British Columbia. Environment and Climate
Change Canada is forecasting 75-150 mm of total rainfall for most areas over the two-day
period from Friday to Sunday. Higher rainfall amounts are possible, particularly over higher
terrain, with the potential for localized amounts in the 150-250 mm range. Temperatures are
expected to rise, with freezing levels forecast to peak around 2500 m by later Friday. Recent
snow accumulation at elevation has occurred over the past few weeks, with 5-40 mm of snow
water equivalent currently being observed at automated snow weather stations throughout the
region. Most of the snow on the ground is expected to melt during this event and will
contribute additional runoff to rivers.

Rivers are expected to rise rapidly on Friday and into Saturday in response to rainfall, with peak
flows expected on Saturday. Larger rivers, including the Squamish River, will likely experience
peak flows on Sunday. Current modelling is indicating the potential for flows in the 2-year to 5-
year flows in most rivers through the region, and potentially higher depending on the rainfall
rates and amounts that ultimately occur.

Details of the COFFEE and CLEVER Model forecasts can be found at:
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/fallfloods/map_coffee.html, and

http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
