Ministry of Forests

Central Update:
High Streamflow Advisory – South Thompson (DOWNGRADED), Bonaparte River (MAINTAINED),
Shuswap and Tributaries of South Thompson (ENDED), Thompson River (ENDED)
Issued: 9:30 AM May 29, 2023


The River Forecast Centre is updating the following:

   •       South Thompson River – High Streamflow Advisory (DOWNGRADED)

   •       Bonaparte River - High Streamflow Advisory (MAINTAINED)

   •       Tributaries of the South Thompson River including the Salmon River, Eagle River, Adams
           River and surrounding areas - ENDED

   •       Shuswap River – ENDED

   •       Thompson River downstream of Kamloops Lake – ENDED

River Conditions:

River levels on the Bonaparte River remain high following rainfall runoff last week. On the

South Thompson River, levels have reached peak levels, but have yet to experience a

declining trend. Levels are expected to remain high over the coming days before receding,

and no significant additional river rises are expected at this time.

The public is advised:

River levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly. Being near these riverbanks, creeks and fast-
flowing bodies of water is dangerous:

       •    Stay clear of fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks

       •    Avoid recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, boating or hiking near high
            streamflow rivers or streams

       •    Remember, high streamflow can easily trap strong swimmers, increasing risk of
            drowning



Understand the risks and get prepared by visiting www.PreparedBC.ca/floods.
Ministry of Forests

For emergency information and related resources, go to: www.EmergencyInfoBC.ca


The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
