Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

UPDATE: High Streamflow Advisory – Interior Mountains (MAINTAINED)
ENDED - Vancouver Island, South Coast, Lower Fraser Tributaries
Issued: 9:00 AM October 21, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is updating flood watches and high streamflow advisories as follows:

   •   High Streamflow Advisory - Interior Mountains including tributary rivers in the West
       Kootenay, Upper Fraser, North Thompson, South Thompson, Cariboo Mountains, and
       Upper Columbia (MAINTAINED)

   •   ENDED - West Vancouver Island including rivers around Tofino, Bamfield and Port
       Renfrew and surrounding areas

   •   ENDED - South Coast including the Sunshine Coast, Howe Sound, Sea-to-Sky and
       tributaries around Sechelt, Squamish, Whistler and surrounding areas

   •   ENDED - Lower Fraser Tributaries including the Lillooet River and rivers around
       Pemberton, Metro-Vancouver, Lower Mainland and Fraser Valley

   •   ENDED - Vancouver Island Central, East and South

   •   ENDED– North Vancouver Island


Weather Synopsis:

A system of atmospheric rivers has now passed, and rainfall rates have eased across the province.
Drier weather is anticipated through the middle of this week.

River Conditions:

In the Interior Mountains, rainfall eased overnight and early Monday morning. Rivers have
reached peak levels, or are near peak levels as of Monday morning, however streamflow remains
high. No significant additional rises are expected at this time. Flows are forecast to decline
through the day on Monday.

In south-west BC, including Vancouver Island, the South Coast, and Fraser Valley, river levels have
declined following high flows on Saturday and Sunday. Continued declines in streamflow are
forecast through the middle of the week.

Fast-flowing rivers pose increased risk to life safety. The River Forecast Centre continues to
monitor the conditions and will provide updates as conditions warrant.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
