Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

High Streamflow Advisory – South Coast and Lower Fraser Tributaries
Issued: 1:00 PM August 23, 2024


The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    South Coast including areas around Whistler

    •    Lillooet River and Tributaries around Pemberton, D’Arcy and Duffy Lake

    •    Tributaries along the Fraser River through the Fraser Canyon, including areas around
         Lillooet, Lytton, Boston Bar and Spuzzum

Weather Synopsis:

A low-pressure weather system is forecast track across southern BC this evening. Rain, at times
heavy, is forecasted this evening, tapering off to showers by Saturday afternoon. Environment
and Climate Change Canada has issued a Special Weather Statement for the Fraser Canyon,
Eastern Fraser Valley, Whistler, and Pemberton, with rainfall totals in the 20-30mm range, and
40mm in areas that receive the highest rainfall.

River Conditions:

Smaller river systems are most susceptible to rapid rises due to heavy rainfall during this event.
Rapid rises in rivers are expected overnight and through Saturday. Enhanced responses from
areas with recent wildfire burns is possible.

Hydrologic modelling of larger river systems, including the Lillooet River and tributaries, and
larger tributaries along the Fraser Canyon, including the Nahatlatch River, could experience
flows up to the 2-year to 5-year range.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.

For information on how to prepare for flood hazards, visit PreparedBC.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Fast-flowing bodies of water increase risk to life safety. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.
Ministry of Water, Land and Resource Stewardship

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
