Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

UPDATE – High Streamflow Advisory – Chilcotin (DOWNGRADED)
ISSUED - 2:00PM July 13, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is downgrading to a High Streamflow Advisory for Chilcotin,
including:

   •   The Chilko River and Chilcotin River downstream of the confluence with the Chilko
       RIver and surrounding tributaries, but excluding the Taseko River and Big Creek

Extremely hot temperatures over the past few weeks in the Chilcotin region triggered
unprecedented amounts of snowmelt at the higher elevations. The flows have peaked and are
currently receding but remain at relatively high levels.

A summary of flow conditions observed at 8:04AM today include:

   • The Chilko River at outlet of Chilko Lake (Water Survey of Canada gauge 08MA002) is
       currently flowing at 167 m3/s, which is a flow between the 5- and 10-year return
       periods.

   •   The Chilko River near Redstone (WSC 08MA001) is currently estimated to be below a 2-
       year return period flow

   •   The Chilcotin River near Hanceville (WSC 08MB012) is currently flowing at 408 m3/s,
       which is a flow between the 10- and 20-year return periods.

Flows are expected to continue to decline through this week. Details of the CLEVER Model
forecasts can be found at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
