Ministry of Forests

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Fraser
ISSUED: 12:30PM June 28, 2022

The River Forecast Centre is issuing a High Streamflow Advisory for:

        Upper Fraser River including areas from Prince George and upstream tributaries
         through the Robson Valley and the McGregor River

        Fraser River from Prince George to Quesnel

        West Road River including tributary rivers and streams around Nazko

The hottest weather of the year was measured at Prince George Airport over the past 3 days,
reaching maximum daily temperatures of 24.1°C on June 25th, 26.7°C on June 26th, and 28.6°C
on June 27th. Snowmelt rates at the automated snow weather stations in the Upper Fraser are
averaging 35 to 65 mm of melt per day this week. Additional rain is forecast ranging from 30 to
65 mm in the Upper Fraser over the next two days. Moderate to heavy rain falling on a rapidly
melting snowpack increases the possibility for sudden increases of flow for rivers and creeks.

Areas of forecast high flows include the Bowron River, McGregor River and Fraser River around
McBride, Hansard, Shelley and through Prince George to South Fort George and further
downstream to Quesnel. The West Road River and upstream tributaries are also expected to
rise.

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast‐flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high‐streamflow period. Be prepared and know your hazards.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests

A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.
Ministry of Forests

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
