Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development

High Streamflow Advisory – Upper Columbia
Issued: 1:45PM June 24, 2021

The River Forecast Centre is issuing to a High Streamflow Advisory for:

    •    Upper Columbia, including the Columbia River mainstem and tributaries around
         Donald, Golden, Radium, Invermere and surrounding areas

Hot temperatures over the past few days has led to accelerated snowmelt rates from high
elevation terrain from the Rocky Mountain and Columbia Mountains. Rivers have been rising
from this snowmelt, with many gauged rivers in the region currently flowing between 2-year
and 5-year return period levels.

Temperatures are expected to rise into the weekend, with daily maximum temperatures in
Golden forecast to reach the upper-30’s °C, and freezing levels reaching or exceeding 5000m by
Monday and Tuesday next week.

Hot temperatures and snowmelt from higher elevations are expected to lead to rising river
levels over the weekend and into next week. Current modelling is indicating the potential for
flows in the 5-year to 10-year range through the region. Details of the CLEVER Model forecasts
for this region can be found at: http://bcrfc.env.gov.bc.ca/freshet/map_clever.html

The public is advised to stay clear of the fast-flowing rivers and potentially unstable riverbanks
during the high-streamflow period.

The River Forecast Centre continues to monitor the conditions and will provide updates as
conditions warrant.


BC River Forecast Centre
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development
A High Streamflow Advisory means that river levels are rising or expected to rise rapidly, but that no major flooding

is expected. Minor flooding in low-lying areas is possible.

A Flood Watch means that river levels are rising and will approach or may exceed bankfull. Flooding of areas

adjacent to affected rivers may occur.

A Flood Warning means that river levels have exceeded bankfull or will exceed bankfull imminently, and that

flooding of areas adjacent to the rivers affected will result.
Ministry of Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and
Rural Development
